ID: B0007QKN22-RB5XPFU6TXHZG-A2EAEMXIP09MKO
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-f3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A2EAEMXIP09MKO
ReviewerName: M. Miller
Date: July 29, 2006
Helpful: 15 of 16
Rating: 4.0
Title: A very good camera
Content:
I ended up with an XT when Best Buy gave me a "loaner" (that I had to pay for) while my warrantied 20d was in repair for three months.  They are finally replacing my 20d with the new 30d - but that's another story.  As an aside, I don't believe the problem was with the 20d as much as it was the company that Best Buy contracted with to do the repairs.
Anyways, on to the review.  I gave a rating of 4 stars because it is a good camera in its own right. But after owning a 20d for almost two years, I was much, much happier with the 20d than with the Rebel XT.
But don't get me wrong, the XT is still a very good camera for the money.  The picture quality is superb, with crystal clear pictures.  I did notice a difference in color rendering with the XT, but a lot of that could have been my lack of experience with the XT as the the controls are somewhat different than on the 20d.
Another major difference between the two cameras is size.  If you have large hands, you will definitely appreciate the larger 20d.  The XT is much smaller and feels more like a toy in my hands.  Its plastic body (as opposed to the magnesium alloy body of the 20d and 30d) made me a little nervous as well.  Although I've never dropped my camera (knock on wood), I think the added ruggedness of the magnesium body adds a bit of insurance to your investment. 
One other major difference is the focusing.  I noticed that the XT doesn't auto focus nearly as well as the 20d.  It tended to focus on the wrong point more often than I would have liked.
All in all, the XT is a very good camera and is a smart purchase if your budget pushes the 20d or 30d out of reach.  However, if you can afford to spend the extra money, I think the added features are definitely worth it.