ID: B000VMH99C-RE738VFLA8XX1-A1PL7QILVQV3IF
Category: Laptops
Product: INSPIRON-NOTEBOOK-CoreTM-Display-WINDOWS
ReviewerID: A1PL7QILVQV3IF
ReviewerName: The Taminator "There's no going back. You've ...
Date: December 18, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Overall a four star laptop
Content:
I have this model with the 160GB HD upgrade and Vista (Vista, the bane of my existence). It is surprisingly stable, and runs a wide variety of memory-hogging programs smoothly. I run Poser, Bryce, Corel Paint Shop Pro X2, Photoshop, MS Office 2007, iTunes, DVD transfer software, web applications, you name it, and sometimes I run 3 or 4 at once. (Poser does crash occasionally, but that's an issue with the program.) It's good for your main computer, and as a bonus is a laptop that you can fairly easily take with you wherever you go. It is definitely not as lightweight as I would like for travel. This is not going to be able to compete with newer, lightweight models with the same firepower in the portability category. It's also not a powerhouse gaming PC, so if you're into advanced gaming you'll need to look elsewhere.
The keyboard is a standard-size laptop model and easy to use-- no keys in funny places, or anything like that. At the top of the keyboard, next to the power button, there is another button that says "MediaDirect." Don't push it. I did ONCE by accident right after I got it, and I barely managed to get it back into regular Vista mode. I think it's some kind of layman-proof thing for people who just want to manage pictures and video, but if you know your way around Windows you'll just find it irritating if you ever trigger it. The picture is crisp and clear after all this time of fairly heavy use, and the sound! It's no Dolby theatre by any means, but I can play music on it in the back room, come out to the front room on the other end of the house and still hear it. There's a lot of power behind the sound, if not A-level quality. 
I do have one major gripe with this laptop, and I can't say whether it's true with newer Dell models... but the power cord where it plugs into the computer is smooth, sliding into place. Sounds very soothing, right? Well, the problem with a cord that doesn't lock into place is that it can slide right back out again, and you'll never realize it. Next thing you know, you're getting a notice that you've only got 5 minutes left on battery power, and you didn't even know you were on the battery! After this happens a few times, the battery is shot, useless except for when you want to move from room to room without turning it off. If you use it in bed or on your lap a lot, this can be a REAL problem. 
I've never had a problem with Dell computers aside from the power cord issue. In fact, I'm writing this review on the E1705, I own 2 Dell desktops, a Dell flatscreen monitor, and I'm preparing to buy my fourth Dell PC. As far as laptops go, you could probably do better with newer models, but you could definitely do a lot worse-- and I mean A LOT. I know this laptop will last me at least until I get the itch for an upgrade, and my husband will enjoy it for years after that when he inherits it. All in all, one of the best purchases I've made in the last few years.