ID: B0007QKMQY-R2U4X63JMMEHRZ-A2S69XXL09NQOV
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-f3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A2S69XXL09NQOV
ReviewerName: J. Tenneson
Date: November 23, 2007
Helpful: 12 of 12
Rating: 5.0
Title: My first ever camera
Content:
I've never owned a camera, film or digital, before.  So as a first time-camera owner, I'm more than thrilled.
First the bad (and they aren't that bad):
1.  As you start using it more you want to buy more accessories, like filters, lenses, and tripods, oh, and a bigger bag every few months for all the growing stuff.  Okay, not really a negative, but something you should watch for.
2.  The 'Kit' lens that comes with the camera is great for most shots within 50 feet or broad landscape shots.  For people new to SLR's (digital or not) the kit lens is a good starter lens to feel out SLR's potential, but if you have even a few months of SLR experience, I would suggest buying the body-only and selecting the lenses you know you'll want.  Because anything more than 50 feet or if you're trying to capture a specific element of a landscape shot, you'll find the kit lens lacking.
3.  Manual settings are a little difficult to figure out.  Okay, when I bought this camera I knew nothing of f-stops or shutter speed and any combination of these.  I am still closer to confused than comprehending, but I've found I want to start trying out these seetings and it isn't obvious how to set these yourself.  For those who want to just take a picture the cheat-sheet at the top (a wheel you turn to tell the camera what type of combination of f-stops/shutter speed/etc you want) is more than adequate (and I've had no problems using it).  But after starting to learn what you can do by modifying f-stops and shutter speeds, I have started to yearn for a more newbie friendly process.  Again, though, this is really dependent on the type of person you are.  I like lots of control so this has started to gnaw at me some (though no where near enough to rate less than 5 stars)
The good (and I think they're real good):
1.  I've never had any of the pictures developed (I bought a digital camera for a reason), but image wise, the pictures are great quality.  As I take pictures with the highest resolution the camera allows I find I'm often disappointed by a picture until I remember that the picture is 3x larger than what my monitor displays, and when I view full size the detail is incredible.  I had a chance to shoot some tidepools, and I'm not sure the urchins and starfish looked that good in person.
2.  Lots of high-quality pictures.  I bought 2, 2GB memory cards and I can fit 566 highest quality JPEG pictures on them.  With two cards I've never had to worry about being selective with my shots.  Professionals might find this untrue, but as a budding hobbyist, I'm extremely happy.
3.  Battery life, I read somewhere that you should have 2-3 times as many batteries as you think you'll need. Well I'm a little curious about that one.  I have 1 battery and I've never been concerned about losing a charge.  I've virtually filled both of my 2GB cards up on the same battery (800+ pictures) and it still showed a nearly full charge.  Now I may be less demanding than most because:
a)  I don't review pictures, I do that when I return home
b)  I don't take many pictures with the camera's flash
But even when I've forgotten and left the camera on for a few days after taking a few hundred shots, it still shows a nearly full battery.  Now you probably should have a few extras just in case, but if you aren't away for extended periods, battery concerns are quite minimal.
4.  Ease of use - The Canon is VERY forgiving.  Even right of the box, if you leave the settings on automatic and let the camera decide the settings you'll be very happy with the shots.  Knowing how to adjust the settings will give you an incredible shot, but for the rest of us, we can let the Canon select the settings and come out with a very good shot that more than meets our hopes.
*****
Summary:  This 8MP is a greaty starter camera and looks to be able to scale upward.  It is very forgiving of your ignorance, allows you ample ways to upgrade as your understanding grows, and is a joy to use.
Even if you plan on becoming a pro, this is a great camera to cut your teeth on without breaking the bank.  I'd recommend this camera to any beginner or non-professional.