ID: B0000X7CMQ-R10VNLSZ341G1T-A1S7BFT0HDF3HA
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Zojirushi-EC-BD15-Thermal-Carafe-Coffee
ReviewerID: A1S7BFT0HDF3HA
ReviewerName: loce_the_wizard "loce_the_wizard"
Date: October 14, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Zojirushi field report number 320
Content:
Here is field report number 320 on the Zojirushi Fresh Brew Coffee Maker and its stainless steel vacuum insulated carafe. We have been using one of these impossible-to-pronounce-its-name coffee makers for 11 months. The news so far, for the most part, is so good, but a few quirks and issues might merit a brief recounting.
The carafe does keep the coffee warm for longer than I typically want to be drinking coffee, so no issues there. Now the stainless steel part has me wondering a bit as the inside of my carafe looks like it has had coffee inside it for the better part of 11 months. Maybe I need to attack it with some sort of denture cleaner to bring back the gleaming silver one typically associates with stainless steel. 
The coffee maker works fine provided the coffee is not too to finely ground, the filter does not collapse in the basket, and top for the carafe is placed correctly. A lava-like river of coffee and grounds dripping from the kitchen counter, splattering onto the floor, and meandering to hard-to-reach spots (e.g. under the refrigerator) is not the best start to the day. On the plus side, I put in the filter without the concave filter holder a couple of times and not been punished for my oversight as the Zojirushi somehow worked its magic anyway.
Humans no doubt were involved in placing the tiny buttons for programming the timer and setting the clock. Clearly, those responsible must have very tiny fingers. Doubling the size of said buttons would be a great thing. And those same humans thoughtfully set up the timer and clock so that these controls only go forward. If you want to have your coffee ready and waiting for you an hour earlier tomorrow than you did today, you have to advance the timer 23 hours ahead instead of just moving it one hour back. At least those humans got the lift out basket for the filter and the filter holder right--it is easy to remove and clean.
Our Zojirushi does seem a bit flimsy and is no thing of great beauty though the black and stainless steel components seem timeless enough. But at 6:00 a.m. all I am looking for is a cup of strong, hot coffee. My wife typically rises about an hour after me, and on weekends, we tend to reverse the schedule. Having coffee that does not taste burned, stale, or bitter waiting is a good thing. Zojirushi is our solution.