ID: B0000SWAC8-R31AXP59O6P6Z6-A2DBVWZSHLQS45
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL6988D-Oxygen3-Canister-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A2DBVWZSHLQS45
ReviewerName: JTuney "jtuney"
Date: January 18, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Powerful vacuum great for pet hair
Content:
I also researched this product before buying, looking for a vacuum that would be good for pet hair on both hardwood floors and area rugs.  This one was rated best, and was less expensive than some others not so well rated.
I have one of the other (not red in color) Electrolux cannister vac's that I thought was a good vacuum, but just wasn't doing that well now that there are two hairy dogs in the house.
I'm very happy with this vacuum.  On bare floors, it draws light weight pet hair into the vacuum from areas around the powerhead (instead of blowing it away.)  As other reviews indicated, on rugs or carpet, it is sort of lightly self-propelled.  The handle with a large loop to it works well with this feature, making it easy to steer the powerhead. The brush and crevice tool have on board storage. I'm using the powerhead on bare floors as well as rugs.
It is NOT hard to detach the power head/wand from the hose/cannister for storage. (It works like my old Electrolux, so I didn't need need the instructions, but these are very clear, and the pictures are helpful.)  Please note:  there are gray release buttons on the wand.  The step-on pedal is to unlock the wand from the upright position to a free angled position.  It doesn't detach anything.  I'm afraid that the person who was stepping on this to knock down the vacuum used brute force to disassemble the thing, and it's no wonder the vacuum is in the shop. 
There is more plastic and less metal on this vacuum than on the older (not red) Electrolux's.  Its also a lot lighter weight, more compact, and easier to carry.
Cons:  With the powerhead running, this is not a quiet vacuum.  (Dogs will run and hide.)  I think this may be the loudest vacuum I've ever had, but it works the best.