ID: B000NDMADO-R300HKRJ6RUQ4N-A3MDUFEYB8TP9C
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dyson-DC21-Stowaway-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A3MDUFEYB8TP9C
ReviewerName: Maria
Date: July 26, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Highly recommend for hard-floors and light carpet homes
Content:
I'm very satisfied with this vacuum. I have a small, all hard floors (tile, wood, vinyl) home. This vacuum has SUPERB suction power, so make sure you pick up all those little things it's not supposed to be sucking up - coins, paper clips, etc. - because it will suck them up.
I find the cable length just fine. Unless you live in an unfurnished warehouse, chances are you do need to stop to maneuver around furniture and reposition the canister, etc. To think you should never need to replug it in is just unrealistic. Same for the hose. It's made of perfectly fine quality plastic and it maneuvers fine for me as well as the whole unit that follows me easily with a gentle pull. The accessories attach perfectly fine to the base and nothing falls off like I've read others say. I even had to pull a little hard to get one out the first time I used it.
The floor tool moves along very easily and it picks up from the edge amazingly well. It has a "bumper" so it doesn't damage your furniture even though it does pick up dirt all the way on the edge of the wall or corner - must be the strong suction power. It has a foot-accessible button to turn on or off the brush - on for carpet, off for hard floor.
Everything is very easy to figure out how to put together. The extension wand "clicks" as you extend or collapse it to ensure it's in place. It will collapse if you haven't clicked it to extend it - it can't read your mind.
The instructions are also VERY easy to figure out even though it doesn't have words - again, like I read others comment on.
It's also super easy to empty out and since the receptacle is washable, you could even add water before emptying to ensure no particles go into the air. I empty it out outside of my home with no problems at all - I'm allergic to dust.
The fact that it needs no replacement filters or bags ever is a huge plus for me.
I would highly recommend this to anyone with hard-floors only or even some light carpeting home. I've owned a couple of cheaper vacuums before - electrolux stick and dirt devil upright - and nothing compares to this.