ID: B000FFRYYK-R2Z5TYU68ST5N7-A2WSEMOJRYFEYI
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: BTX-B-ThermoFresh-10-Cup-Thermal-Carafe-Coffee
ReviewerID: A2WSEMOJRYFEYI
ReviewerName: B. Ellington
Date: August 11, 2009
Helpful: 0 of 3
Rating: 1.0
Title: Good coffee, but what a mess!
Content:
This coffee maker produces a good cup of coffee quickly.  It does this by keeping hot water in the tank.  You add cold water, it releases the hot water through the grounds and then starts heating what you just added.
Instead of a glass carafe, you get a thermos-type one that can be a little difficult to open.  It keeps the coffee hot, but Bunn recommends that you run hot water through it before using it, to get it warmed up.  There is no way to keep coffee warm with this maker.  
You also have to keep this plugged in at all times.  You can't put it in a cabinet and bring it down when you want to make coffee, you have to keep water in it at all times and keep it plugged in and turned on.
It's a good thing that it brews fast, because you can't grab a cup of coffee until it's all done, and if you don't have the carafe on the base right it will spill anywhere (granted, you need to be careless for that to happen).  Most coffee makers I've had have come with a spring-loaded valve in the basket to prevent coffee from spilling if the carafe is removed to pour a cup or if it's not positioned correctly.  This one doesn't.
Still, with all that it's a good coffee maker.  Until it starts leaking!  After a few months we've found that pouring water in the top means big puddles all over the counter.  Water comes out the back, out the right side, out the left.  I initially had grounds spilling through but that was because I wasn't using Bunn's filters.  So basically, you're also forced to buy Bunn's own filters, which aren't stocked by our local grocery store, and had to be ordered.
I've talked to Bunn on the phone, and they will happily replace my maker with another if I ship it back to them, and I have to pay postage.  So right away add $15 to the cost of this unit, and be prepared to go without coffee for a week.  All after three months?
I wish I had purchased another brand.  I like the coffee this makes, but I liked the coffee my previous coffee makers made as well, and this is the first one I've had that was this much of a hassle to own.  It's decidedly not worth the money.