ID: B000MLG9K2-RXDF1HSCWEXM6-A2SS2Z1T1LXTWG
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-55mm-Zoom-Nikkor
ReviewerID: A2SS2Z1T1LXTWG
ReviewerName: R. P. Poletti "Just a guy"
Date: June 6, 2007
Helpful: 52 of 53
Rating: 4.0
Title: Film to Digital at last!
Content:
I finally did it.  I have made the transition from film to digital photography.
I LOVE this camera!  Definitely a great addition to the venerable Nikon line of SLRs.  It is right-sized, easy to handle, fast and quiet.  There is a good deal of automation built for those times when you are more need to get a shot NOW, yet the fine control to enhance your creativity.
Since this is my first digital camera of any type, I cannot compare it to other digital models; I can only compare it to film cameras.
D-80 and Digital Advantages
---------------------------
Low processing costs.  Only pay for the "keepers" you print.
"Throw away" and test shots no longer carry a penalty of any kind.
Huge picture capacity with large SD cards.  No more changing film rolls at the most inopportune moment.
Instant feedback.
The D80 has a high enough resolution to make good sized prints.
All the digital processing advantages, (white balance, cropping, converting to black-and-white or sepia tone, etc.)
Auto ISO and the ability to change ISO for any given shot.
The many exposure modes give you flexibility and fine control.  The modes vary from point-and-shoot, to manual.  There are also vari-program modes that automate many common shooting or difficult situations like night portraits where you want to flash the foreground but also want a long exposure to get the darker background.  Or high-speed modes where you may need the AF system to track a moving object as it passes across the field of view.
Compatible with the full range of 35mm lenses, speedlights and accessories.  So if you are like me and have a significant investment in 35mm Nikon gear, this is the way to go.  Do not get rid of that 35mm body!  (Using DX-type lenses on a 35mm body is not recommended!)
Smaller focus area (compared to 35mm) means less shutter travel.  That translates into much faster flash sync speeds and less vibration.
The D80, when combined with Silent-Wave Motor lenses has a very fast focus which is nearly noiseless.
The Auto-focus system is one of the most intelligent I have ever used, yet you have extremely fine control over it.  Very flexible.
Setting the built-in flash to Commander Mode permits you to control several off-camera CLS compatible speedlights *wirelessly* (SB-800, SB-600 and SB-200).  You can also turn off the built-in flash so that it will not fire during exposure (avoiding the harsh face-on light).  It will still generate the monitor pre-flashes to fire the other speedlights.  You can also use a shoe-mounted speedlight to be the commander as well.  There are a couple of channels and groups so that you can avoid stepping on another photographer in competitive shooting situations.
I love the rear-curtain flash sync!  I will not buy a body or flash that will not support it!
There are so many other options and capabilities with the flash, such as multiple flashes during a single exposure, that really give you tremendous creative control.
Digital and D80 Cons
--------------------
Not too many cons, but they can be show-stoppers for some.
Film has a much higher resolution, so if you want to make poster-sized prints, you will still need that film body.
Limited ISO range.  The slowest ISO for the D80 is 100, common in other DSLRs too.  I often shoot ISO 25, 50 or 64 for the express purpose of getting very slow shutter speeds to blend motion, such as running water.  Even with these, I would often use neutral density filters to get exposures of several seconds.  Now I need to use more ND filters to stop down.
The battery does not last as long as a 35mm battery, more than 1,000 shot w/o flash, but it recharges quickly and you can always carry a spare.  If you are used to camera batteries lasting for weeks or months, you will not get that here, but then.
While the D80 has a very solid feel, it have a feeling that it is somehow more prone to shock and vibration damage than 35mm counterparts.  Note!  This is speculation on my part!
Other Points
------------
Remember that there is approximately a 1.5x effective focal length ratio when compared to a digital camera.  So that 18-135mm DX lens actually equates to a 27-202mm lens on a 35mm.  a 24-120 lens would be 36-180.  If you like wide angle, you may need to pick up another lens.  If you like telephoto, you are in luck.
Recommended Accessories
-----------------------
I recommend the SanDisk Extreme III SanDisk 2 GB Extreme III SD Memory Card ( SDSDX3-2048-901 ) line of SD cards, the bigger the better.  These are very fast and can *exceed* the Nikon product claim of 100 continuous shots, at 3 per second, when not using RAW mode, even when image size is Large!  It also comes with special "undelete" software to recover deleted images.  I am happy with the Ultra II line but they cannot quite keep up with lots of continuous shooting and they do not have the undelete utility.
The optional MB-D80 Nikon MB-D80 Multi-Power Battery Pack for the Nikon D80 Digital SLR Camera battery pack uses two batteries (discharging them one at a time!) to power the camera.  You can also use AA batteries in it to drive your camera in a pinch.  While it adds weight, it makes vertical shooting easier as it has a shutter release (which can be disabled) and command and sub-command dials.  I recommend this accessory.
Do you travel?  Consider the Adorama QP-104 Rapid Battery Charger.  Adorama QP-104 Rapid Li-ion Battery Charger for Nikon EN-EL3 Battery, 110-220V, 12V Car Cord Adapter Included  It has a car adapter so you can recharge your camera battery while you are on the road.  The A/C adapter is compatible with both North American and European power standards (you still need the plug converters, however).
Consider the getting the D80 body separately and the Nikon 12-24mm f/4G ED IF Autofocus DX Nikkor Zoom Lens zoom and the 18-200 VR DX Nikon 18-200mm f/3.5-5.6 G ED-IF AF-S VR DX Zoom-Nikkor Lenszoom instead of the 18-135mm kit.  But only if you are a fan of zoom lenses.  I have yet to use a zoom that came anywhere near the quality of a prime focus lens.  Not to mention zooms are almost always a stop or two slower.
I really like to SB-800 Nikon SB-800 AF Speedlight for Nikon D50, D70s, D80, and D200 Digital SLR Cameras speedlight.  High guide number 38/125, auto-zoom 24-105mm and, of course, the amazing Nikon wireless CLS are great!  Get a couple or three if you do any indoor work!  Do not forget about sync cords Nikon SC 29 - Flash synchro cable - flash terminal if you want to use a pistol grip.
The ML-L3 wireless remote is useful only if you standing in front of the camera.  If you need a remote release, get the MC-DC1 cables release.  If you need to back away from the camera, consider the after-market Satechi MA-G (118 inch cable) MA-G (118 inch) Camera Remote Control for Nikon MA series D80 D70s remote release.
Consider the Domke Domke F-2 Original Bag (Sand)line of camera bags, as most models are large enough to hold the camera with the the MB-D80 battery back attached.
Do not forget filters for the lenses.
One Last Point
--------------
Why only 4 stars?
About 3 months after getting this camera, it inexplicably died, displaying "err" and underexposing each picture.  With the dozens of pieces of Nikon gear I have purchased over the years, this was the very first failure I ever had.  I contacted Nikon support, which was easy and fast (the never put me on hold).  I sent the camera to the service center and got it back 10 days later.  I was pleased with the the service and repair, but disappointed the the camera broke to begin with.  Still, I am considering getting another D80 so I can have a second body.