ID: B000S5ZUH0-R2SM1SEA657AIX-A1GIBLJUNI10Z9
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-Wi-Fi-Portable-Media-Player
ReviewerID: A1GIBLJUNI10Z9
ReviewerName: Rhymenoceros
Date: January 9, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 2.0
Title: Not useful without plugins
Content:
The Archos 605 is a great product if you're willing shell out about 150 extra dollars for plugins and accessories. Otherwise, all that it's good for is music and pictures. You want to browse the web? You need to pay for it. You want to watch videos? You need to pay for it. Want to record TV? You need to pay for it. Want to play games? You need to pay for it. Save money and just buy an MP3 player, unless you're ready to pay for plugins.
I got this device for Christmas and was excited by the promises of having an internet browser, a video player, an MP3 player, a picture viewer and games on one small portable device. But just as I opened it, I realized some flaws right away. There was nowhere in the device to store an included stylus. The device only had a special port for connection to a computer. There was no way to change batteries. These were small things, but it would have been a nice touch for the company to include them.
When I first got onto the internet, I noticed that the web was very slow on the device, and a lot of websites would not work. Besides this, though, the web browser was okay, but not worth the $30 price tag that Archos puts on it.
The music and pictures worked fine. I had no complaint here. In fact, the music feature was the only reason that I didn't rate this one star. It had great sound through the speaker, and included features such as a graphic EQ.
The "widgets" consisted of three items. One was a solicitation to buy $10 game packs from another company. One was Opera widgets, which worked, but only consisted of a few basic widgets. Though I tried, there was no way to put more on. The other "widgets" item was Flash games, which I thought showed a lot of promise. However, the games are tediously slow when put on and require a lot of patience to play. Another useless button on the home screen. By the way, there are no "apps" for this device like there are for the iPod Touch.
About this time, I had left my Archos out for a night without plugging it into the computer to charge. It ate up all of its battery on standby mode and I had to reset it. The battery time on it is okay if you have it plugged in whenever you aren't using it.
The video feature was the most bothersome. I had ripped some music videos from a DVD for the sole purpose of putting them on the device. I thought that a working video feature would redeem the device, but after spending hours converting the videos to .avi, .mpg, .wmv, and even .swf, nothing would play without the $20 "Cinema" plugin. I was very disappointed.
If you want something cheap that surfs the web and plays music, videos, and games, find a deal on a tablet PC. The Archos 605 Wifi is not worth your time or money.