ID: B0000B3CGE-R1BYNJZMYWPI63-A4QHZO1AL3TJ9
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Dualit-84022-Filter-Coffee-Maker
ReviewerID: A4QHZO1AL3TJ9
ReviewerName: Coffee I.V.
Date: April 6, 2005
Helpful: 12 of 13
Rating: 1.0
Title: All Bark, No Bite
Content:
First, I must admit I love the look of Dualit products.  They just exude crasftmanship of a by-gone era.  Made in England and built like tanks, I love their industrial form-follows-function look and feel.  I've owned their 4 slice toaster and kitchen scale prior to buying their coffee maker.  I am quite happy with the toaster and scale, but the coffee maker is totally unacceptable.  I ended up returning it.
Here's why.  Quite simply, the temperature of the water is not hot enough.  Perhaps it has something to do with the Dualit only being 750W, but the water comes out of the machine at 180F and the coffee settles into the carafe at barely 170F.  My Cuisinart(1100W) coffee maker was at 195F out of the machine.  I sent an email to Dualit asking them if this was normal or perhaps I got a lemon.  Well, not only did it take them over a month to reply (and, after sending them 2 emails), the reply was very kurt and they basically said, yes, it comes out at that (sub-par) temperature.  I guess the Brits should stick with making tea!
The Dualit sure did look great.  Too bad it made a lousy cup of joe.  After a bit of research, I decided to return the Dualit and purchase the Zojirushi EC-BD15 Fresh Brew Thermal Carafe Coffee Maker from Amazon.  It's a bargain (currently discounted at $49.99) and makes a fantastic pot of coffee.  The water is a nice 195F coming out of the maker and stays hot in the thermo carafe (185F) for several hours.  Because it doesn't need to continuously reheat the coffee, it stays fresher longer than in a glass carafe on the burner of a traditional drip maker.  Zojirushi is a well-respected Japanese brand -- the coffee maker is made in China.  Two other tea countries that at least know what temperature the water needs to be to brew coffee properly.  I highly recommend the Zojirushi (1025W).  The Dualit, unfortunately, was a total performance disappointment.
FYI, the "correct" water temperature for brewing coffee should be 197.6 - 204.8 degrees F.  You might find this coffee faq useful: http://www.thecoffeefaq.com/1thebasics.html.