ID: B000063XHI-R3GV02ZSFQHSRQ-A3M2GOIB3HIXZD
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Capresso-440-05-Electronic-Coffeemaker-Thermal
ReviewerID: A3M2GOIB3HIXZD
ReviewerName: JDiver "You haven't lived until you've dived."
Date: May 31, 2004
Helpful: 27 of 28
Rating: 5.0
Title: Top price niche, but worth every penny for coffee lovers
Content:
I've had Braun and Krups makers before, but my Krups went kaput and I wanted something a little better for preparing a variety of fine Arabica coffees, from Antigua types like Kona to rich Indonesian varieties, to their best. (I was raised in Mexico, where for candy I sucked on coffee cherries, not candies.) The reviews here seemed a bit mixed, but after some research, I bit the bullet and bought the machine. I have had the Capresso 440 for six months, so I feel I can comment now... and I am very impressed! It prepares excellent coffee, in large or small batches (there is a selector switch), has a permanent goldtone filter (you can buy paper filters -preferably unbleached - if you prefer,) coffee comes out above 165 F / 74C, and it stays warm at least a couple of hours; the coffee-maker is easy to program, set up and clean. It even looks good, though my prime criterion is always the quality of the coffee produced. One small thing I improved on was the small black dot on the top of the black lid used to open / close the opening to the spout - I used a dot of yellow acrylic paint to make it more visible, and it makes a significant difference. Two things I think could be improved on - the fill indicator float-ball-in-column is on the right side, ecessed, and the design of the machine makes it a bit difficult to see in the darkish corner of my kitchen counter; and of course, a lower price would please everyone. These are relatively minor - the Capresso, made by a company that makes upper end machines for professional baristas, is a high-quality coffee-making machine that's sure to please aficionados of good coffees. If you can't program your VCR or radio-alarm, demand piping hot coffee that blisters the mouth, or prepare cheaper Robusta coffees like Farmer Bros., forget this machine - save your money and get a Mr. Coffee. If you prefer espresso types, Capresso makes machines that do that, you won't be satsified here. To each, according their own taste... But if you enjoy fine Arabicas properly prepared, without the unhealthy effects of plunge / press makers, and a machine that is easy to use and seems substantial enough to last, I think you will be very happy with the Capresso.