ID: B000UV4EU6-R3HCXY9I52ADX3-A2G23UKP2RX7GU
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Portable-Media-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A2G23UKP2RX7GU
ReviewerName: L. Otto
Date: February 19, 2008
Helpful: 20 of 23
Rating: 5.0
Title: Love the Creative Zen
Content:
I just bought my first MP3 player mainly to listen to at work in order to cut down on background noise. Now I wonder why I have waited so long. I researched the various players online for days. I am not one to jump on the bandwagon, e.g., iPod, to buy what everyone else is buying, but I was leaning toward the iPod because "everyone I knew had one." That is, until I did the research. The Zen does so much more than the iPod and for a much more reasonable price. My biggest concern when reading the various reviews was installing the firmware. Seemed to be an issue in a few cases. But because of those reviews and concerns, I made sure that I installed the lastest updates on my computer, including the media player. So bottom line, the Zen arrived and it took no time at all before I had it up and playing (and recording, an managing my Outlook calendar and contacts, and listening to my favorite FM stations...and more!). I'm about to buy the 32GB and give my husband my new 16GB, just because I know I'll use the capacity. So anyone who is thinking twice about Zen vs. iPod (or anything else for that matter), jump out of the box, be different and go for the Zen. Much better value for the money, many more features including its compact size, big screen, great sound quality -- and it's easy to use. As far as the buttons are concerned, I've read reviews where they were described as having loud clicking noises. Well, not in my case. Yes, there is a soft clicking sound that you may notice with your earbuds off, but again, hardly noticeable. I can't say one bad thing about the Zen. As I said, I'm going to purchase the 32GB just as soon I complete this review.
P.S. I did replace the stock earbuds -- they were pretty crappy and uncomfortable -- and that's the only negative comment that I have about my Zen.