ID: B000FFWGN4-RTTAJKXGD9S2U-A8AHHH5C6SBTE
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-Lift-2dOff-Revolution-Pet-37602
ReviewerID: A8AHHH5C6SBTE
ReviewerName: K. Gehring "jogging mama"
Date: September 23, 2006
Helpful: 39 of 40
Rating: 5.0
Title: I LOVE this vacuum cleaner
Content:
After doing some searching and online reading, I decided to go with the Bissell Lift-Off Revolution Pet Vac when the time came for me to replace my 11-year-old vacuum cleaner.  I knew I wanted an upright model with easy-to-change attachments as well as a bagless model.  I saw this particular vacuum cleaner in a Target store one day and the pet aspect got my attention.  We have a black-haired house dog whose little black hairs always seemed to be embedded in the carpet...even *after* I had vacuumed.
This vacuum is wonderful.  It's picking up all kinds of carpet fuzz, dog hair, dirt, and other crud that the old vacuum was leaving behind.  My carpets look and feel brand new after I vacuum.  And the best thing - no more little embedded black dog hairs!  The pet hair turbo brush also makes a huge difference on those areas where our dog likes to take his daily naps.
The cord is plenty long enough for me to not have to constantly stop and switch outlets as I'm vacuuming through the house.  I haven't yet tried the detachable cannister feature, but I imagine that will come in handy when necessary.
The dirt cup is super simple to empty out - just slide a little lever over and the cup pulls right out.  The filters are easy to locate and appear to be easy to clean/change.  The price is quite reasonable as well...at less than $200, this vacuum is an affordable choice for people who want a nice cleaner but don't want to spend several hundred dollars on one.
While there are many other things I'd rather do than vacuum, I'll admit this Bissell vacuum makes it not so bad.  The fact that I know my carpets and floors are actually getting clean makes a huge difference.  I'm very happy with this model and wouldn't hesitate to recommend it to anyone...especially if you have indoor pets!