ID: B000XRQ2OS-R2WYCMR161D69U-A2CWPSAEGKX6V9
Category: MP3Players
Product: Rhapsody-H1A030S-Player-Haier-Silver
ReviewerID: A2CWPSAEGKX6V9
ReviewerName: Laurence
Date: March 14, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best player for users of Rhapsody subscription service
Content:
Got this a few weeks ago, and have been so happy I ordered another one for the kids.  The WiFi link actually makes Rhapsody usable.  On previous devices I have used Rhapsody on, like the Dell DJ, the Creative Zen Vision, the iPhone, etc., it TECHNICALLY works, but is PRACTICALLY unusable due to the fact that half the time you go to play a song, either the license is expired and you have to take it inside for a sync with the PC to refresh the licenses, or (on the iphone) it would not play reliably since I was moving in and out of cell service (AT&T is such crap...try to listen to Rhapsody on an iphone while skiing, or out on a boat, or even driving down the freeway in a car...it constantly stops working). I can't count the number of times I have been out and about and had no music as a result, on those units.  With the ibiza, anytime you are in range of a WiFi connection, which is practically anytime I want with the advent of cellular hotspots, it can refresh the license, as well as download new tunes, podcasts, etc., and then store it all on the internal hard-drive so you don't have to constantly MAINTAIN that connectivity (which is the fatal-flaw in the "new" Rhapsody-streaming-audio products).  For the first time, Rhapsody really DOES give me access to millions of songs, pretty much anywhere.  Highly recommended.  The interface on the Ibiza is pretty reasonable, and the positive pad-click feature reduces the accidental wipe-out of the queue that is so common on the Creative Zen touch pad, though it is not completely eliminated if you accidentally push the select button twice, which can happen because response time is not instant.  This could be fixed by switching the order of the items on the select menu, but sadly I understand that Rhapsody bought the software company that wrote the firmware for these devices and has put them on a different project, so they are no longer improving it.  Typical...they finally get something that makes their service useful, and quickly move on to something else before quite perfecting it.  Despite that, if you are using Rhapsody, this is the best bet out there.