ID: B0002U9L12-R2LUQBF7SZFE94-A26XTZ23ZBNLVD
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Mr-Coffee-Thermal-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A26XTZ23ZBNLVD
ReviewerName: Elizabeth A Triano "lizziewriter"
Date: October 25, 2006
Helpful: 13 of 14
Rating: 4.0
Title: Harder to break than the others, just takes attention
Content:
I agree with Mr. Vasicek's review for the most part, and with the other reviewer below who has mentioned problems with the clock.  I got this pot because it would be more difficult to break than the ones with the glass carafes, and the lack of a burner meant no more burnt coffee.
I do have the problem with the filter flopping over and getting grinds in my coffee, and may try the permanent filter solution.  I definitely recommend pre-heating the carafe with hot water, regardless of the time of year.  Otherwise the coffee gets tepid fast.  The coffee is not as hot as it could be, most of the time, but maybe that's also to do with the amount of (also preheated) milk I put in my cup.
I don't like the delayed brew function, but only because it is time-based, like an alarm clock, and I'd rather it was a straight delay, because I don't make coffee at the same time every morning -- I'd like to be able to set it to go off after a set time, so I could go outside, or shower, or whatnot, and return to fresh coffee.  But it doesn't really matter, because the clock itself seems a bit wonky now that I've had the appliance for a few months.  I can't say whether we've been bumping it and accidentally changing the time, or whether there is a problem with the clock itself; anyway, it seems to be a weak point.
I've cleaned it a few times with white vinegar; I can't get all the coffee stains out of the carafe but I don't really care.  I don't have a drip problem with pouring the coffee, but I do line the lid arrow up carefully and have found that it helps to steady the lid when you pour.  If you try to pour without the lid, it will often spill!  But compared to pouring out of the little glass carafes on the "freebie" type coffee makers, this one is great.
Forget the pause function... if you take the carafe out during the brew cycle you are just asking for trouble.
All in all, I'd say that it's not "the perfect coffee maker" but it's the most suitable that I have encountered in recent years -- speaking as someone who has recently ruined a percolator by running it without water.      I would buy this one again.