ID: B000U6FUQI-RPQDRL6UCJM6Z-A24UBZZRT1KEUC
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dirt-Devil-0313SLV-Cordless-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A24UBZZRT1KEUC
ReviewerName: Bert Morris "D. Morris &#34;roxie&#34;"
Date: May 12, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: ABSOLUTELY WONDERFUL!!!!
Content:
I have a cousin that got the KRUZ and showed it to me--thank goodness!!  
We live in the country and I wasn't able to find one near me so I found one on Amazon and actually got a better deal on it b/c I didn't have to pay taxes and got free shipping too. I got the thing two days after I ordered it too which I thought was super amazing!!!
I loved it from the minute I got it charged up long enough to use it. Now I will say that for me it is absolutely the greatest little helped on earth but for others it might not be. My son didn't like it b/c the filter does really get clogged up fast and you DO have to take time to clean that out if you want it to pick up really good the next time you use it. He says to him it defeats the purpose of having it if you have to spend like 5 minutes cleaning out the filter. He says he could have used a broom and dust pan faster and that might be so---but he doesn't have pinched nerves in his back either and for me-having to use a broom hurts my back a lot!! I mean this thing picks up every tiny thing on my hardwood floors and on MOST of my throw rugs!! I found it doesn't do as good of a job on some tiles we have in our entry way b/c of the tile being lifted up higher than the grout lines around them but hey---it picks up nearly everything on those. 
I just really LOVE LOVE LOVE this little Dirt Devil KRUZ and am sooooo happy I got it. Well worth what it cost and for me-the PERFECT thing to use every day several times a day if needed. We track in a TON of leaves and grass and whatever onto our hardwood floors in our house and this little baby really gets them up GREAT~!! Sometimes you might have to go over something more than once to be sure it picks it up-but really it glides soooo smoothly and manuevers so well all around the room and has bumpers on it so it won't scar up your woodwork-so I just have to give it an A++~!! I am extremely happy with it and I don't care if I do have to sit down and pick lint out of the filter using a round toothpick!! It takes me about a minute most times and I use it several times a day and man it really keeps my floors clean!! Love it and would buy it again if given the choice!! 
Hope you will try one out before you buy it if you can though b/c my son thought it was a waste of money for him. But again-he doesn't have horrible back pain like I do and for me-it's just perfect and I would rather clean out the filter than use a broom which hurts my back--and a dust pan. This is wayyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyyy better!! :)