ID: B000S5ZUH0-RLAVJ9N4DF6J7-A15J1R3OKRVLLE
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-Wi-Fi-Portable-Media-Player
ReviewerID: A15J1R3OKRVLLE
ReviewerName: P. Castaneda
Date: April 27, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great Capabilities!!  Great Screen!!
Content:
The first piece I purchased turned out to be defective but when I contacted J&R (3rd party vendor that I got it from through Amazon), they were VERY helpful in the return process and getting a new one out to me.  So, have had the new one for a little over a week now and I really love it.  The space on the unit is mind boggling!  I have about 10 movies on it and a TON of music and I still haven't gotten even CLOSE to filling it up!  
Yeah, it's a little bulky and not cool enough for my 14 year old to carry around but honestly, it does it all!!  Most times, I listen to music with it sitting at my desk at work so don't have to worry too much about the bulkiness.  The screen is awesome!  The features are really nice.  I can't truly rate it all the way around yet since i haven't played with it enough.  
One thing I do really love is their pocketDish feature.  If you have Dishnetwork, you can download your non-HD recorded shows onto the Archos (and the cool thing is, the plug in for it is free, and you don't need to buy any additional gadgets to do this!).  It's really nice because I can toss movies i record, shows the kids like, etc. onto the piece.  Just so you know though, Archos does not have a very friendly website and out of the two times I called them for tech support, one the guys had no clue what he was talking about and was basically just trying to get me off the phone the whole time.  (a little annoying!)
I think I will truly appreciate how great this thing is when we take our first trip and then I can come back and update you!  All in all, I do really like it.  It does charge really slow with the USB but once charged, the charge carries you a while before having to re-charge it. I just ordered the mini-dock for it and will let you know how that works.  is supposed to charge quicker plus I am supposed to be able to connect the archos to the tv and such!  So, more stuff to play with!!  will keep you posted.