ID: B000CS7UEY-R1Q7682TWKT9HB-A1MYGSS5IFIFPA
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Zen-Vision-Video-Player
ReviewerID: A1MYGSS5IFIFPA
ReviewerName: John Hawkins "John"
Date: October 12, 2006
Helpful: 9 of 10
Rating: 3.0
Title: This MP3 player will delight and infuriate you
Content:
It's been 2 years since I bought an MP3 player from Creative's 'Zen' line, and with the huge advancements made over the span of this time, I decided that it was time for a new upgrade.  Naturally, after doing a bit of research, upgrading to the next series in line seemed the way to go (and so I did).  
The Creative Vision: M, upon inspection when I recieved it, was a quantom leap ahead of its predecessor.  Its smaller, sleeker, more beatiful and functional.  The Vibrant 2.5' LCD dominate iPOD video's with its slightly-larger size and more vibrant/numerous color pallete.  As of this time, I didnt have any vidoes I wanted to transfer, but I was amazed at the "commercials" that Creative packed in with this MP3 player (just why Creative would decide to put in commercials advertising a product you've arleady bought is a complete mystery altogether).  
Setting this player up and Sync'ing it with Windows Media player was a snap.  For those 'not-in-the-know', sync'ing your player to your computer basically means that your 'My Music' 'My Pictures' folders on your PC will be duplicated and put in your Zen Vision, and any future changes you make in your PC will be reflected in the Zen Vision whenever you sync up to it.  Of course, my only gripe about the sync'ing process is the time it takes do to it.  I would be more appreciative if Creative gave us a Firewire outlet because it would have made the transfer of data much quicker.  
Now that I've got all the good stuff out of the way, you're probably wondering why I gave this MP3 3 stars instead of 5.  Well... its not so simple, but if you want to wittle down my biggest complaint about the Zen Vision: M its the user Interface.  It sucks.  Horrendously.  Creative tried to take what's good about the iPOD interface (the 'clicky' wheel) and simplify it even further.  The result is instead of having to twirl your fingers around the wheel, you simply move it in an up-down fashion, and when you want to make a selection slide your thumb to the left-or-right in the middle of the touch-sensitive area.  
Right idea... wrong execution.  The Amazon review pointed out that this results in your accidently 'playing' songs when you want to simply navigate through menus, or vise-versa.  It happens far more often then they mention.  There's also a problem with the fireware where navigating 'down' didnt feel as smooth as navigating 'up'.  All these issues combine to make a world of headache for those trying to navigate through hundreds of songs that they've uploaded into their player.  I dont understand why Creative didnt just use a mouse-wheel scroller instead, because it would have been far less combersome (even though some would have considered it less 'elegent').  Screw that, give me functionability over 'elegeance' anyday of the week.  
So really, if you can get over the aweful navigational touch-pad, then I whole-heartedly recommend this over an iPOD.  Its music quality, LCD are much better.  If you absolutely think you cannot (and you dont care that much about the stuff I mentioned above), and you can afford to wait a little longer, then buy the 80 gigabyte iPOD instead.  Yes, we all hate Steve Job's as much as the next guy, and as much as we'd like to see iPODs stanglehold of the market released, we can all admit that in part its because they actually test their products out on people for more then a week before its released.