ID: B000WFZSBE-RFNOVOB5NWSSQ-A3BVBPSV6VKC0A
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A3BVBPSV6VKC0A
ReviewerName: Vestris
Date: February 11, 2008
Helpful: 18 of 48
Rating: 1.0
Title: Horrible priority software !!!  Do not purchase
Content:
I must preface my comments by saying that I am a professional videographer and producer for 15 years.  I had no problems with calculus at 15 years old. For the most part I am fairly adept at getting around what most would consider problems on the computer. 
The good: The design itself is excellent and attractive.
The bad: Almost everything else
The software is by download only. Don't buy this as a present for a friend in a country where high speed internet is uncommon. I spent hours trying to upload my very rare collection of classical CD's that I spent thousands on.  I tried every trick I could think of to organize the files.  Originally I bought a Samsung K3 for a friend and had no problem upload the music. I believe the K3 can even operate without the Samsung software. I thought I could not go wrong with a Microsoft player that was second generation and offered 8 gigs of storage. I could not have been more wrong.  Unless you are satisfied with music downloads only you are wasting your money on this device.  If you are so lucky as to be able to get your files into this player you will then find out that both the software and the player have minds of their own.  No matter how painstaking you may label you files they software will rename the music. I may even revert some of the names to things on the web which are often incorrect.  I have no idea where it was getting the info from.  Originally I wanted to load some Pimsleur language CD's on it and the player failed miserably.  it refused to recognize my WMA files that were burned from my personal discs on windows media player.  After an extended effort I got "most" of them to be seen but they were placed in a very odd order. it is unacceptable to be forced to go through anything close to the procedures I went through.  It should not be a requirement to trick the player to get the music on.  It is obvious that Microsoft wants you to spend the extra money to buy their music.  It was only after the fact by going on line at the Zune site with a problem that they state how resistant the player is to any file that is not one of theirs. Check this out for yourself. Quote from Zune web page: If you buy protected songs from someplace other than Zune Marketplace, for example, they won't work with Zune. If your content is in a format that doesn't work with Zune and it's not protected, you might be able to convert it.  
What is up with "might" be able to convert?
I cannot describe the frustration as a result of the hours I wasted trying to make this work.  I hate to be defeated but that is not even the point here.  The near complete lack of organizational ability in conjunction with the restrictiveness of this unit are nothing less than appalling.  this is in no way a "personal" player.  It is an unwitting investment in Microsoft.  ...and yes, I am a PC user exclusively.
A last note is that it is very susceptible to fingerprints and they are hard to remove from the screen.