ID: B000A33B1C-RZR0I16W14NDI-A2AFV2YWLSYI65
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Delonghi-TRD0715T-Safe-Oil-Filled-Radiator
ReviewerID: A2AFV2YWLSYI65
ReviewerName: Shantanu Sharma "Happy Man"
Date: January 25, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Solidly contructed, safe and effective
Content:
I purchased the first Delonghi heater in April 2007 and a second one in November 2007. My home office is in the basement and I much prefer to use this heater for 1 room instead of the central heating which heats the 1st floor and the basement. We use the second heater in the master bedroom for pretty much the same reason. We turn down the thermostat at night and use the heater instead. On exceptionally cold days I set the second heater to heat the master bathroom at 6 am so that it isn't freezing in the morning. Here are my observations:
1. The mechanical timer is simple to use and is pretty accurate
2. The heater is very effective in a small/medium size room like my office or guest bedroom. It doesn't heat the master bedroom which is pretty big with a high vaulted ceiling. I don't think its designed for that and I don't even expect it to heat the entire room. It keeps the area in the vicinity of the bed nice and toasty which is what we want in any case. 
3. I haven't really checked how much electricity it consumes but I very much doubt that its more than the central heating. 
4. The unit itself is very solidly built and appears as if it will last a long time. It also seems properly sealed so I'm not worried about it leaking oil.
5. The exterior of the unit does tend to get hot but it will not burn you or anything. I sometimes put my hands on it for a quick dose of warmth.
In case you do purchase this, here's something you should DEFINITELY do before you use this unit on a regular basis: let it run on 3 for 24 - 48 hours either outside the house or in an unused room which has good ventilation. This will get rid of the smell of oil once and for all. Its kinda like a 'break in' period if you will. I didnt do this with the first unit and ended up getting a headache from the smell of oil. I cranked it up and ran it for 36 hours and the smell was gone! 
Conclusion: This is a very well built product that is simple to use and is very effective in a small/medium  size room or space. Make sure you get rid of the smell before you use it. 
Highly recommended.