ID: B00005IBX9-R1UTWRVKOO2N04-A1892QWPBS45UH
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1200-Central-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A1892QWPBS45UH
ReviewerName: A. M. Barbano
Date: February 7, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Pleasantly Satisfied with the Cuisinart 1200 - Black Chrome
Content:
Bought this model after reading many other customer reviews and Consumer Reports high ranking of this model. We've had it for about two months now and here are my observations and opinions.
- I didn't like having to pick it up (rubber feet on base don't slide) from under the cabinet and bring it to the open countertop to fill water and coffee grounds...so I put 4 peel and stick vinyl glides (size of a nickel) under the base next to the rubber feet and it works great for easy sliding from under the cabinet to the open area of countertop.
-I kept my old slim water pitcher from our old "Bunn" coffeemaker and use the fill lines on it to fill the water reservoir and I don't even have to look at the Cuisinart fill level to know how much water I need. - I too fill the water before filling coffee grounds. - A good discovery is that the "cone" filters are more efficient than our old "basket" style filters and now we use 1/4 less coffee to make the same potency of brew. - I have not used the brass filter but use just the cheap paper (walmart generic) kind.  - we love the timer for setting up the night before..we thought we would never use this feature but it speeds the household up when everyone is up at once.  The 1-4 cup brew feature is also nice for brewing 1-4 cups of coffee as the water is given an extra dose of heating time.  We always use filtered water from our kitchen tap so hopefully this will preserve the filtering system in this coffeemaker. We noticed that the coffee is not as hot when we don't use the timer because the tap water is very cold during the winter months and using the timer allows the water to naturally warm up during the night waiting to brew. We love the look of the black chrome and it cleans up rather easily. As with anything, taking great care of this appliance should get our monies worth in the long run. We also bought ours at Lowes Home Improvement Store during a store sale for $59.00 and figure even is this coffeemaker breaks down...it is the equivalant of going to Starbucks 6 times (2 people each time).  Four out of Five stars for this coffeemaker because...nothing is perfect!