ID: B000ALMLUQ-RWKSYKTZQ9N1X-A1XF31HQFYJ1PQ
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Flavia-J10NBK-Fusion-Drinks-Station
ReviewerID: A1XF31HQFYJ1PQ
ReviewerName: Vladimir Ratner "vratner"
Date: August 2, 2007
Helpful: 6 of 7
Rating: 4.0
Title: Excellent Machine, Delicious Coffee, A Few Caveats...
Content:
I must admit that I'm not a coffee gourmand, but always wanted to have a nice little coffee machine so I could enjoy an occasional cup of cappuccino, or a latte on weekends.  I didn't know much about Flavia, except that a friend of mine, who is a dentist, has a commercial size Flavia unit in her office, and she has always raved about it.  To make a long story short, my wife got it for me as a Father's Day gift this year, and now I'm hooked.  I can't say that I drink more coffee now than I used to, but it's nice to be able to make a fresh, great-tasting cup of coffee/tea in a luxury of your own house whenever you want.  No more hassle of going to a local Starbucks, where you not only get ripped off, but not really getting a better coffee anyway.  Here is why I love my Flavia, and also why I gave it only 4 stars, and not 5:
PROS:
Machine - I was expecting to see a giant, food processor like machine that wouldn't fit anywhere, but was pleasantly surprised to see how small, and portable the unit was when it finally arrived.  The build is very solid as well.
Easy Cleanup - Did I say "easy"? There is no cleanup involved whatsoever! Poor some water, place a cup on a holder, insert a pack, press a button, and a few seconds later enjoy whatever it is you made. Done!
Coffee - This is where it really shines! The possibilities are endless - regular coffee, decaf, flavored coffee, various teas, cappuccino, latte - you name it - this little "wonder" can do it! And it tastes delicious!  So far my favorite drink is cappuccino, made with creamy topping, and espresso roast.  Yummy!
CONS:
Noise - It's a bit noisy.  Not for too long though, but enough to make some people turn their heads and ask what is it that is so loud.  I was thinking of buying another one for my office, and this was actually one of the reasons why I didn't - I don't think my co-workers would appreciate it.
Price per Pack - You can only use Flavia made coffee/packs, and it comes out to be somewhat on the expensive side.  It is definitely cheaper comparing to Starbucks, or any other fancy coffee shop, but for some people it could still be a consideration.  To avoid, or I should say to lessen the high cost, I found out that it is cheaper to buy packs in bulk.  First, find out which ones you like better by ordering a couple of sample packs.  When you know what you like, you can go to one of these places (I found them to have the best prices) - myflavia (register your machine first to get coupons and discounts), giantcoffee, or bfcoffee.
Color - Noise, and price per pack aside, personally, this was the sole reason for a 4 star review.  It only comes in three different colors: black, red, and blue.  Hmmm... let me see - my kitchen is light cherry color, and all of my appliances are either almond or beige in color.  Which one would you choose?!  Tough decision, isn't it?  I went with Blue, although it still doesn't really match anything, and looks kind of out of place.  Only later I found out that there is a "Deluxe" version of this machine available in grey/silver color combination, but it costs significantly more, and doesn't add more features.
CONCLUSION:
If you want a great tasting coffee made fresh whenever you want it, this machine is for you.  Keep in mind the cost of refills, the noise, and the limited color choices.  Otherwise, it's an excellent machine, and would make a fine gift to any coffee lover.