ID: B0009VELUA-R1XTJ9LJGTKJNA-A3VYBGY91Q23EZ
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-2000-Coffee-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3VYBGY91Q23EZ
ReviewerName: Angel "Movie Star Bulldog"
Date: March 20, 2008
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 4.0
Title: Not perfect, but not bad
Content:
Overall, this seems to be a reasonably well-made product with great "curb appeal."  We just got it and have already had several people ask "what is that?" not realizing it was a coffee maker... she thought it was a soft-serve ice cream machine.  Yes, I realize that some of the price we paid was for the little "Cuisinart" logo (I figure about $4 per letter :)
It was very easy to set up, and the instructions were shockingly easy to understand.  One thing the instructions didn't mention, unless I missed it, was whether or not the machine kept the coffee heated when you left it on.  Apparently it does.  Programmable auto-shutoff is nice to... you can control how long it will stay on after brewing so that you don't have to remember to shut it off.
I'm no coffee snob (lots of cream and sugar, please), so I'm not qualified to comment on taste... it's fine to me.  I'm all about convenience, and this unit gets top marks there.
Pros:  My tall travel mug will fit under the dispenser if I remove the grate; it has a water filter; no carafe; reservoir and basket have convenient little handles; built-in backup on the clock/timer so it doesn't reset to 12:00 if you unplug the unit briefly to move it or the power goes out for a moment (LOVE THAT!!) 
Cons:  Only one, really... when you open the lid, the inevitable condensation underneath runs down to the back of the lid hindge, then down the back of the machine, then onto the counter.  A better design would have channeled the water back into the reservoir, rather than channeling it onto my counter.  So be sure to wipe under the machine after opening and closing the lid, or you may think you have a leak.
Can't comment on durability/longevity, but with the warranty, I'm not going to worry.  I've got my constant caffeine fix, my tastes-like-melted-coffee-ice-cream coffee, and it looks really cool in my kitchen.