ID: B000AQSMPO-RLDIWYA7N703H-AT1WJYMZF31K8
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-B60-Special-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing
ReviewerID: AT1WJYMZF31K8
ReviewerName: Cowboy "Easygoing consumer"
Date: December 26, 2007
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Many advantages over the Senseo!
Content:
I've had it a week now, bought after owning a Senseo for 2 years. I love the design/operating advantages:
(1) Once the cup is made, dripping stops almost immediately
(2) You can SEE the water reservoir, so you know when to refill
(3) You can refill the water just by lifting the top and pouring in a cupful of water, you don't have to take off the entire reservoir (although you can)
(4) You can make coffee in tall cups
(5) The noise comes after the coffee is brewed, not during
(6) You have a small range of coffee temperatures available to set from the control panel
(7) It stays on all the time (manufacturer's recommendation) so you can always make coffee instantly
(8) The K-cups are MUCH nicer to take out and throw away, rather than the soggy pods
(9) They have an excellent (Newman's) fair traded coffee, so I feel good about helping the coffee growers without sacrificing taste
(10) There is no chance of putting in the K-cup the wrong way (such as crooked). I hate it on the Senseo when I don't put in the pod perfectly, and my Senseo spills water all over because it leaks through the seal.
(11) The reservoir is larger, so a longer time between required refills. However (see above) it is so very convenient to refill, I tend to keep it topped off.
(12) The sealed K-cups seem to be built to keep the coffee fresh longer than the permeable pods, so I have lots of different brands/styles/flavors of coffee that I switch between all the time. Senseo has a half dozen or so nice flavors, but I have to find an airtight container to keep them all in (and separately, since the aren't labeled).
Advantages of the Senseo:
(1) You can make two cups at once if you change out the dispensing spout (easily done)
(2) The "froth" on the top of the coffee is a nice touch
(3) It takes up less room on the table top
See all the other helpful reviews telling you about the operation of the machine and the coffees, but I was struck at how significantly nicer this was to own and operate. I'll keep my Senseo (I have plenty of pods), because I love it, but this is much more convenient to operate. And it is just FUN to offer 20 different coffees in the attractive K-cups to guests.