ID: B0007QKMR8-R2ZJICMIZRIJFA-A2ZV3LEV4JN1LS
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-Camera
ReviewerID: A2ZV3LEV4JN1LS
ReviewerName: Scott Meyers "Scott R. Meyers"
Date: July 14, 2007
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good Camera, Good Deal
Content:
Well,
I spent my time researching DSLR cameras.  I will avoid the specific details but my main decision factor was price.  I wanted a camera that was under $700 (including a lens).  I realize that I was probably you typical DSLR researcher and buyer.  This was going to be my first DSLR camera, and I didn't want to break the bank while at the same time having room to expand. 
The Canon XT fit into the price range while giving me the options I wanted.  I didn't see the need to go up to the XTi, Nikon D40x, Nikon D80 because at 8 MP you can pretty much blow the XT pictures up to poster size and not really see huge loss in detail.  I also had the luxury of choosing between all the different brands because I didn't have any lens already purchased.  My main comparison came down to the Canon XT versus the Nikon D40.  Both were similar in price (with the kit lens included), but when I went to the local camera store to try them out (I still purchased from Amazon, no sales tax really gives Amazon an advantage here) I kept coming back to the Canon XT.
The Canon XT has more autofocus points which were instantly apparent when I was just picking up the camera and trying to take pictures in the store.   Also, in a non-scientific statement the Canon just felt better in my hands.  I know it is made from plastic but it fit right into my hands and felt extremely comfortable.   The one item that I did like the Nikon over Canon was that the Nikon uses SD cards instead of CF in the Canon.  I just like SD better because most laptops now (including mine) have a slot where you can just slide the SD card in and the laptop reads the card exactly like a hard drive.  Also, in talking to the kind individuals in the camera store and in searching online I found that the Canon type of lens (AF) are more common and there are more generic (Tamron, etc) lenses available so over the long run (where as I have found out that you are going to pay alot more for your lenses then you ever will for your DSLR camera) so this was another selling point of the Canon XT.
My first pictures with the camera were up in a trip to Alaska and the kit lens did OK but I could definitely see it limitations.  That being said for a difference of $70 between body only and body and lens, I think this lens will serve me well until my skills develop more.  I would rather learn on (and maybe break) the cheap kits lens and then move up to the better lens then start out dropping alot of money on expensive lenses.
Overall, the Canon XT is everything I wanted it be.  It fits right into my hands, the autofocus is good, all the controls are available for any skill level from novice to pro, and I didn't break the bank to purchase it (I got the Canon XT (with kit lens), a 2 GB card, and I nice little holster bag all from Amazon for under $725).  I am pleased, the only reason I don't give this a 5 star rating is that I don't think the kit lens is perfect and I wish that you could take RAW photos in the Automatic modes (sometime I don't want to fiddle with the settings but I still want to modfiy the pictures later)