ID: B0007QKMQY-R1IIGURIHASLRT-A20A58RIHIJEW5
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-f3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A20A58RIHIJEW5
ReviewerName: J. Lacombe
Date: July 23, 2006
Helpful: 48 of 49
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Digital SLR
Content:
I've been using the Rebel XT for over 6 months, taken literally 1000's of pictures and it's been great. Loved my old manual 35mm Nikon SLR, have been using digital point-n-clicks but wanted the control of an SLR again--no major complaints with the Rebel XT. Overall: if you're shopping for a solid DSLR, I'd definitely recommend it.
Pros:
+ Fast. I had a miserable time capturing action with my Canon S50 (a digital point-n-click)--response time made for hit-or-miss photos. The XT takes something like 3+ shots/second, a feature I've been happily using for action sequences I could never pull off before.
+ Great depth of field. This was something I really missed from the old SLRs--you just don't get much depth with point-n-clicks even in those portait modes. The XT is great for isolating subjects in the shot. 
+ Battery lasts far longer than any other digital cameras I've had (I suspect b/c it lacks the preview window). As a bonus, the XT uses the same form factor as my Canon S50 so I only need one charger when I travel. 
+ Auto-focus is v. fast. I know I mentioned speed before but it's worth mentioning again. I hate waiting for other digital cameras to analyze a scene and take a shot--no delays with the XT. 
+ Starts up instantly. I didn't think I'd care about this but it's been great--you see a shot, you flick it on and before you can even raise the camera to your eye, it's ready to fire away.
+ Software is better than I expected--it's actually usable as compared to some other software I've received with other cameras like Kodak.
Cons:
- The kit lens isn't terrible but isn't great. The manual focus ring is narrow and oddly positioned right at the tip of the lens; and you have to turn-off autofocus to use it (unlike most Canon lenses you can buy). It's also noisy. Aesthetics aside, the optics are ok and the range (from wide-angle to zoom) is hard to find in other Canon lenses (I've found that I've needed separate lenses to get the same wide-angle to zoom range).
- One thing I didn't fully realize when I purchased was the impact of the 1.6 cropping factor of the EF-S lens form factor. The XT can take both EF-S and EF lenses. If you throw on an EF lens (the majority of Canon EOS lenses and what I've purchased for my zoom and primes), the scene is magnified by 1.6 (or you could say the edges are cropped). As I understand it, it allows for a smaller camera. The problem is that you really can't use an EF wide-angle lens since it loses it's wide-angle--you'll need to buy an EF-S wide-angle lens and there aren't many choices (I have the 10mm-22m). My concern is that I'm not sure whether Canon will support the EF-S form factor long-term and I hate investing in lenses only to have them obsolete in a year. Will see what happens. Something to consider since you'll probably be purchasing lenses to go with this camera.
- Get ready to clean the camera more. I'm admittedly rough on my equipment (used the XT in the desert and the jungle). Problem is whereas point-n-clicks are sealed and the old 35mm SLRs would simply capture dust/dirt on single frame, getting a speck on the sensor on the XT (and probably most DSLRs) causes a blob on every shot you take until you notice it during reviews and clean it. I use a hand air pump--takes seconds but just be prepared.
- One final note: be wary of suntan lotion and other lotions when using Canon cameras--I've managed to rub off the decals from two camera bodies so far--the ink or whatever is used to print the icons simply disolves.  
I consider these minor issues given the purpose of the camera is to help you take great shots and the Rebel XT definitely does this.