ID: B000HGMX5M-R2F7B170T5XSU6-A2U83VDVJMAB2U
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A2U83VDVJMAB2U
ReviewerName: Brian Baker
Date: September 7, 2007
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: From F5 to D80
Content:
Well, I finally bit the bullet and stuck my toe into the digital pool. I'm glad I did, and chose the D80 as the vehicle.
I'm an old film fan from way back, and my standard was the F5, an absolutely outstanding camera in every way. I also have a couple of N80s, and a couple of FMs. So I know the Nikon product line pretty well, and of course have a significant investment in lenses, so there was no way I was going to switch to another brand like Canon and have to buy a whole new line of lenses also.
The D80 is a pretty outstanding camera, and utilizes the digital technology pretty impressively. Now that I have some experience with it, I'd recommend to other film users to go with at least this level camera, as the 10 megapixel capability is going to be important to you if you want to use it similarly to film as far as cropping, enlargements, etc.
This camera's easy to use, and if you're familiar with Nikons the learning curve will be very steep; it's all familiar territory. No surprises here.
Excellent quality, excellent image quality. Of course, the ease and speed of seeing your end result as soon as you shoot it -- as opposed to waiting for film processing and printing -- is a huge plus to the digital technology.
The only lens I had to add to my current line with this body was a super-wide zoom, as my 18-35 now became effectively a 28-52. On the up side, my 28-300 now effectively became a 42-450.
All well and good, BUT..... don't throw your film camera away. There are some things that film just does better. The ISO range of digital is much more limited. You can't crank it as low as the available film ISOs, which may impact your ability to take long exposures, especially in daylight. Also, above a relatively modest ISO of 400, you start running into issues that have to be addressed in the digital world that aren't a factor in the film world until much higher ISOs, such as artifacting (the digital equivalent of graininess), lessening of color accuracy, etc. Though there is some compensating programming built into the camera, ISO 400 is a pretty low speed at which to have to start thinking about these kinds of issues. With my F5, there are films available with ISO 3200 that can be pushed to 6400. Digital just comes nowhere near this.
So, a great camera for what it is. A wonderful capability to add diversity to your camera bag. But keep your film camera around.