ID: B000NVVDKC-R14F3U9LVTV1YI-A3Q2ZG81N1F9VK
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Evolt-Digital-Camera-Stabilization
ReviewerID: A3Q2ZG81N1F9VK
ReviewerName: Jonathan Allen
Date: January 8, 2008
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Does everything an amatuer would expect from it
Content:
I want to say that I love this camera. I've taken over a thousand pics with this thing and the battery lasted a ridiculous long time. I bought the camera with the two lens kit. As bad as the live view seems to some people I loved it when I was taking pictures for a friend's wedding. Yes, it wasn't moving action, but when you are taking a still photo and you want that awkward angle then it is perfect. The lag is about 1 second or so, about what you would expect from a point and shoot. I am inexperienced with SLRs but I have been around a few between my coworkers having a Rebel XTi and a D50. I must say I've handled the XTi a few times and it feels good and shoots great but I'm in love with my purchase. The ability for my mother to use the live view to get pictures of me and my wife with our two year old's first xmas with her family together (I was in iraq for her first) was amazing. The pictures turned out great and she didn't have to bother with the viewfinder. I do have one SMALL problem with it. My point and shoot doesn't have a problem whatsoever with low light pics, if it can't see it, it focuses as best it can and takes the pic anyways. With the E-510 it will not stop trying to focus for 3 sets of strobing flashes unless it does focus and will not take a picture until it does. I guess its ok when you don't want blur, but sometimes just getting the quick photo is a lot better than missing the opportunity altogether. Also, this camera is perfect in size for those transitioning to D-SLRs. I find myself picking up the XTi thinking, "Wow, this thing is huge!" Even though it's a small SLR, lol...
All in all I think I made a very wise purchase. It had every feature I wanted and yes, live view was one of them. I paid 650 for it at the first of december, and didn't regret waiting for another price change one bit even though it dropped around the holidays to 600. 
If you are thinking about it and can't decide between cameras, you can't beat this one.