ID: B00004R936-RM8JS10VXC78D-A2A3OKMFNFZ4OM
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Melitta-MEMB1B-10-Cup-Coffeemaker-Black
ReviewerID: A2A3OKMFNFZ4OM
ReviewerName: Julian L. Diaz "tabaco"
Date: May 29, 2001
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: It Delivers! But...
Content:
(Update: After two years of daily use the latch on the lid has broken twice and service will no longer sell/ship a replacement part. Instead, they "offer" a refurbished unit for a little over forty dollars but you have to ship them yours. Not worth it! A clear design flaw that hopefully they will fix in future models.) Having had an extremely reliable, regular Krups coffee maker for the last 10 years, it was a tough decision not to go for their similarly priced and much sleeker "Grinder and Brewer". However, the reviews right here at Amazon.com dissuaded me to go for the Krups or the Cuisinart machines. Instead, I decided to try out the less famous Melitta "Mill and Brew" ... If you are going through the same decision process right now, rest assured that this machine delivers! Nothing better than waking up in the morning (or any time of day) to a cup of freshly ground/brewed coffee. Also, this machine will not let you make a mistake. If you forget to place the top of the grinder in place, for instance, it will not allow you to turn it on or set it for a future time! Why only 4 stars? When first brewed, the coffee is not as burning hot as I would like it to be. However, if you leave it on the self-regulating warming plate for a while, it gets hot enough; as my scalded tongue will attest. The second reason is that the "Mill & Brew" doesn't clean itself, but then again, no coffee maker that I know of does. Cleaning the Melitta is not that much of a deal. Other than that, it would definitely gather the 5 stars. BTW, a reviewer complained about the warming plate staying on for "only" 1 hour. Well, if you are a true coffee drinker, you know that coffee that stays on the warmer for more than 1 hour is no longer drinkable and that it's time to brew a new pot. With the Melitta, you're there in no time.