ID: B000NLRY8C-RLFDD4DIWSP7F-A2EG9GYN1VTBWQ
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Mr-Coffee-ISX40-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A2EG9GYN1VTBWQ
ReviewerName: tracy
Date: March 2, 2008
Helpful: 27 of 27
Rating: 5.0
Title: Two cups up
Content:
My husband returned from the store with this three days ago, after our Black & Decker coffeemaker died. Normally, I'll wait a while before posting a review, but I've noticed previous models of this machine getting slammed and felt the need to offer praise.
I normally loathe white/brushed metal combinations but this machine is stylish, and something I'm happy to display. My one complaint about the appearance is the digital clock face, which emits a constant brightness that cannot be turned down. This is a slight annoyance at night, given the layout of my apartment.
This machine is really a step up from those I've used in the past. It brews much faster, and it's so *quiet* -- my B&D sounded like a freight train, and the first two or three times I used this, I actually had to go and check to make sure that I'd turned it on. The abilities to select brew strength (regular or strong), and warming plate temperature (via a knob on the front of the machine) are new to me, and definitely a plus. They make it pretty hard to screw a cup of coffee up ;) 
This machine has the standard auto-on timer, but unlike others that I've used, it allows you to set an audible alarm when the brew cycle is complete. I thought that the feature was ridiculous when I removed it from the box BUT I've come to love it. With past coffeemakers, I was usually dashing to the kitchen and leaving empty handed, or completely forgetting that I'd turned the dang thing on. Which reminds me, the Fresh Brew Timer feature is awesome when you want to know how long the coffee's been sitting there. 
The water reservoir has a grate type lid. I've seen some people complain about this but I find it easier to use than the open reservoir on my last machine -- all too often, I'd pour the water into the brew basket, but I've had no problems here, not even splashes or spills. 
I'm loving the included water filter that sits on top of the brew basket. Our tap water often tastes of chlorine, and this has made a huge difference in the taste. Replacement disks are reasonably priced, especially if you shop around. This coffeemaker comes with a reusable filter, also, though I put disposable liners in that for easy clean up and convenience's sake. (Also, we had bought 600+ at a warehouse club a week before our last maker died, and I've got to do something with them, eh).
I may come back to edit/add to this at some point, but for the time being, this is an excellent coffeemaker, I'm happy to have it, and would definitely recommend it to others.