ID: B000C3MLRU-R2Q7G8J6W0ED9L-A2UAG0HPTNJBOP
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-HHP-1500-Panel-Radiator
ReviewerID: A2UAG0HPTNJBOP
ReviewerName: UT "Terry"
Date: November 6, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 2.0
Title: Nice Try, but No Cigar
Content:
For better application and functionality, choose the Bionaire Micathermic heater from Costco in lieu of the De'Longhi Panel heater.  I give the Bionaire 4-1/2 stars.
The concept is flawed and probably dangerous, if the De'Longhi heater is hung on a wall, because it becomes extremely hot in back.  Although it comes with a wall bracket, it would be ill-advised as a wall attachment with only 1/4-inch mounting clearance; I would fear the increased possibility of a fire hazard.
Aside from it's own name the De'Longhi is sold under at least one other name (Kenwood at Home Depot).  The units appear identical and the Kenwood has a De'Longhi instruction manual enclosed in its carton - Kenwood must have licensed the unit under their name.  Under the Kenwood name, it is touted as a spot heater, i.e., it is more directional and not necessarily for heating an entire room.  Give credit to Kenwood for advertising that concept on the carton.
Because the sleek looking De'Longhi (Kenwood) unit is closed in back, convection of air flow is from the bottom, out through the front and top, while the metal back panel seems to act as a heat sink.  This limits the effectiveness of the mica-thermal element, because radiation is limited to the front and top.  The metal back becomes extremely hot, but does little to produce useable heat.  Because it becomes so hot, hanging it on the wall is probably not a good idea.
My opinion:  A better product application is the Bionaire micathermic heater from Costco.  The Bionaire (quietly made by Sunbeam) does not look as sleek as the De'Longhi, but radiates from both sides and top - the Bionaire allows for better heating as air passes from the bottom to top and either way through both sides.  The Bionaire sells for less than $50 at Costco, while the De'Longhi (Kenwood) is about $80 at Home Depot.
Both have the same heating element: mica thermal.  The Bionaire has three vertical mica elements and the De'Longhi (Kenwood) has one large mica element.  Both are quiet, because there are no fans with only air convection being used for heat distribution.  Both have similar controls (Hi @ 1500watts & Lo @ 750watts) with a thermostatic control knob.  Both have power pilot light indicators, which tell if the unit is plugged in.  The Bionaire has an additional green light that indicates when the thermostat is cycling the power, which is good to know, because then one can adjust for the proper temperature; the De'Longhi (aka Kenwood) lacks this heating cycle indicator.
Trying both units side by side, the Kenwood (De'Longhi) @ $80 was returned to Home Depot.  At $50 and having better functionality and better heat distribution, the less attractive Bionaire micathermic heater from Naperville Costco warehouse became my choice.  BTW, Costco sells this item on their website for $60, so it's worth it if purchased locally at $50.
Side note:  Keep in mind that trying to heat a whole room (larger than 12'x 12') without residual centralized heat, electric space heaters will probably not be sufficient at 1500 watts:  A 120 volt wall socket rated at 15 amps will deliver limited power and therefore limited heat from the device connected to it.  Electric consumption for these units ranges somewhere between 10 and 17 cents per hour, depending on your area.  If run 24/7, expect your electric bill to increase by about $70 minimum per month.  In many cases, it could easily double your current electric bill to "help" heat one room all the time.  Use a common sense approach, that is, only when necessary, and electric heaters can help ward off the chills without breaking the bank.