ID: B0002OZXHO-R2LINVQMECF1ZJ-AAOMG1YP0VNP9
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-White-M9282LL-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: AAOMG1YP0VNP9
ReviewerName: Chris 'raging bill' Burton
Date: January 25, 2006
Helpful: 10 of 11
Rating: 3.0
Title: Great idea - but a rip off. Buy the competition
Content:
There's no doubt about it: iPods are fashionable. A fashion accessory, if you will. There aren't really any electrical devices in recent years that I can think of that have become so widespreadly popular, but the iPod definately has. Does that mean iPods are just a fad? No, of course not. The ability to store all your music on one portable player instead of walking around with CDs or mix tapes/MDs is certainly an innovation, especially for someone like me with a large collection and an eclectic taste. 
However, it seems ridiculous that so many people equate 'MP3 player' with 'iPod' considering the amount of criminally underexposed competition it has. Fact is that iPods are a complete rip-off. I own a 40gb Creative Zen Touch, which I found online (not on Amazon though) for about £50 cheaper than a 30gb iPod. Even more startling was that my sister bought her boyfriend an iPod Nano for Christmas for £130! I paid £170 for my Zen - £40 more expensive for over 10 times the storage space. When you look at the competition, the price of iPods simply cannot be justified. What you're paying for is the big name plus a sleaker design, but even then my Zen looks nice enough, is perfectly easy to navigate and whilst being a bit bulkier than an iPod, one mustn't forget its still a lot smaller than a discman or a tape walkman and no bigger or heavier than an MD player.
Another thing that gets me about the iPod is file transfering. Once a file is on an iPod, it must be connected to a computer to delete it off (through iTunes). If I want to delete a song, album or entire artist from my Zen, I can do so whenever and wherever I like. On top of this, you cannot copy files from an iPod onto a computer. Admittedly, with my Zen the computer in question must have the Creative software installed but at least its a possibility.
Although my Zen, like an iPod, has limited file compatibility, there also players with broader support in order to play file types such as .ogg or even .app.
In conclusion, MP3 players are a great concept and I'm glad I own one but if you're looking to buy one, don't bother with an iPod. Its like paying £25 for a pair of Giorgio Armani underpants when you can get 3 for a tenner at M&S.