ID: B000HBAHNW-R2VJ2ZKHP0GV68-A20R9Y9MXK5KEA
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-S5281-Callisto-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A20R9Y9MXK5KEA
ReviewerName: A. Murphy
Date: March 21, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: FINALLY!!!!! A vac thats a pleasure to use!!! WORTH EVERY PENNY!!
Content:
I finally found a vacuum that I ENJOY using; that works; that doesnt give me grief every time I use it.  Check out my other reviews to see what Ive been through with all the other uprights Ive owned.  Im so glad to switch to a bagged canister vac.  I was so worried to spend this much money on a vac and then have issues with it like my others but this one was worth every penny so far.  I bought the Miele Callisto at my local vacuum place - it was the least expensive model that was good with pet hair...I had it going on a year so far and I still LOVE it.  I named her Rocket Dog.  She follows me around the house like a loyal little companion.  The motorized carpet head is great on carpets.  The bare floor head is great on bare floors. The menuverablility is AWESOME...the way the head swivels around furniture legs and lamps and fits under things is just great. The adjustability in the length of the wand is easy and a pleasure (just push of a button).  LOVE LOVE LOVE retractable cord!!!  All parts are sturdy and solid...No clouds of dirt and dust in your face like you get when you empty a bagless.  When you need to change the bag you just open, release bag, slide it out (theres even a thing that you can pull down on the bag to cover the hole so dirt doesnt puff out of it), and toss it away.  But the BEST PART is when  you put a new bag in...just slide it into the slot and slam the lid shut - DONE!!  On all my previous bagged uprights it took like 10 min to wrestle with the collar of the bag to push it onto the hole - you know what Im talking about.  This vacuum is heaven in that regard.  Yes the bags are expensive BUT I have found that they hold a lot more dirt than you'd expect.  Im approaching a year with this vac and I have just started on my 2nd box of bags.  So that has not been as bad as I had thought. (those of you with bagless vacs, these bags hold a ton more dirt because they compact it all).  So far this vac has been a PLEASURE.  Thank you ROCKET DOG!!