ID: B0000X7CMQ-R1SSL4WOKURI70-AYOMAHLWRQHUG
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Zojirushi-EC-BD15-Thermal-Carafe-Coffee
ReviewerID: AYOMAHLWRQHUG
ReviewerName: Conspicuous Consumer "punctilious"
Date: July 10, 2005
Helpful: 17 of 18
Rating: 5.0
Title: Might Be The Best Thermal Pot You Can Buy
Content:
I bought this pot because Coffeegeek.com gave it an 8.9/10 rating, its highest rating for a thermal pot, beating out the Technivorm Clubline that sells for $164. 
This is my sixth thermal pot by four different manufacturers and one of my favorites (I loved the discontinued Philips).  I've had it for four months now with no problems that I couldn't solve.  The one design element I would change is making the shower spray head bigger so that it more completely saturated the coffee grounds.  I tend to leave the top open when I make coffee and use a spoon to make sure that all the grounds get wet.
Ignore criticisms by people who neither read the manual nor used common sense when using this machine. 
Some complained about flavor but a full pot of coffee made in my machine tastes fine. I use Eight O'Clock Columbian beans, grind them myself, 1T/C, with fresh filtered tap water. If you set it up the night before, your coffee and water will both be stale.
Some complained about filters but I bought a gold filter from Walmart for $5. 
Some complained that the coffee in the carafe didn't stay hot enough.  To ensure that the carafe is hot to begin with, brew a 1/2 pot of just water and leave it in there until you are ready to make a pot of coffee.  If that is too big of a hassle to do in the morning, set the timer to brew a pot of water before you get up.
Some complained that the coffee drips out when you remove the pot before the coffee is done brewing.  If you remove the pot slowly, no coffee will drip out. 
Problems with design and functioning are certainly legitimate but I have never had a problem with Amazon not sending a replacement product or refunding the purchase price.