ID: B000CS7UEY-R36XVTBVLVCADI-AMP7TQRWAIE84
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Zen-Vision-Video-Player
ReviewerID: AMP7TQRWAIE84
ReviewerName: Adrian the Complex Lonely "Spreading love and...
Date: March 21, 2007
Helpful: 
Rating: 3.0
Title: Good, I guess. 3 1/2 stars.
Content:
Creative products (Zen Micro and Zen Vision) have both given me problems. I started out with a Micro and for a while, things were fine. But down the road, I started noticing things that weren't right: Once in a while when I would be listening to a song, it would start the track over right in the middle of the same song. And multiple times did it freeze on me. 
After all of the problems, I decided it was time for a new player. I still tried to keep faith in Creative and bought my first Zen Vision at walmart.com for about 200 bucks. It too was nice for a while, but I'd notice it would freeze up on me. Thank goodness it never turned itself off on me like some have complained about. One day it froze and I put it in Recovery Mode and couldn't get out. I sent it back to walmart.com and they replaced it hassle free. 
Fast forward nearly a month and a half. I am on my second Creative Vision. It has not frozen once (thank goodness) and the bar that steadily moves along as a song plays never acted up like with my first Vision. I was happy about all of that. And I believe it hasn't frozen on me once because I either got really lucky or it was because I installed the 1.61.01 version of the firmware for the player, unlike my first Zen Vision (I couldn't get it to update on that player). But there are still problems. The only main problem (and it's minor) about this player I can say is that when you add most songs, you look at the play count and even though you've never played that particular song before, it already has 3-5 plays on it already. Talk about glitchy. 
My biggest problem is actually with using Creative Mediasource. I use it to put new songs and videos onto my player but sometimes when you're in the middle of using it, all of the data from your player that translates into Mediasource just up and disappears, leaving me no choice but to close Mediasource and open it back up again. Very annoying especially since when I open it, it doesn't got straight to Organizer view.
I wish I could say it's been a walk in the park with this player but it hasn't been. Maybe I should stop recommending this player to people when they ask what player to get...I mean I love the 30 gigs of space, I'm through a bit more than a third of it already and I got my player in mid-May. Overall, it's a decent player that plays videos crystal clear and has nice sound but I just can't look past all the faults.
I can't fully recommend it.
3.5 stars.