ID: B000FFWGN4-R1MKM0MPSX0ATU-A1D60G5IR9U5Z0
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-Lift-2dOff-Revolution-Pet-37602
ReviewerID: A1D60G5IR9U5Z0
ReviewerName: Nicholas Daniels "nicholasatl19"
Date: July 20, 2007
Helpful: 5 of 6
Rating: 4.0
Title: This vacuum cleaner works perfectly for our small apartment!
Content:
My family includes a lovely cocker spaniel with a very thick coat of wavy, blonde and auburn hair.  We love our little cocker, but are not big fans of the random strands of hair that he deposits all over the carpet and sofa.  Wearing black meant avoiding the sofa and the carpet at all costs, or else I wound end up looking like I was wearing cashmere!  It was very stressful to constantly have to use the lint-roller before I left the house.  Also, I have problems with allergies and the difficulty in getting the pet hair out of the carpet really exacerbated my sinus problems.
Then we found the Bissell Lift-off Rvolution Pet Vac at Target.  It was on sale and came with a 20 giftcard, so my familiy decided to give it a try.  I love this vacuum cleaner.  I have never used a bagless vacuum cleaner or one with attachments, but I was able to figure out how to use and clean the vacuum cleaner just by looking it over.  I didn't have to look at the instruction manual at all!  I really like appliances that are self-explanatory.  And I must say it is just amazing how much pet hair this vacuum cleaner gets out of the carpet.  I had no idea just how bad the carpet had gotten until I used this vacuum cleaner.
The receptacle that stores the dirt and hair is a little bit tricky to get off and on and to empty, but other than that the vacuum cleaner is a real delight and really gets the job done.  However, this vacuum cleaner is designed for homes with pets and focuses on getting pet hair out of the carpet.  It does a very good job doing this, but if I didn't have a pet I wouldn't buy this vacuum cleaner.  I think it's a little odd that people without pets would buy and  write negative things about a vacuum cleaner that was not designed for their home.  If you have trouble with pet hair, buy this vacuum cleaner.  You will not be sorry.