ID: B000NVXF30-R392XWNRZGCI1H-AOQJ886QKHG5P
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Digital-Stabilization-14-42mm-40-150mm
ReviewerID: AOQJ886QKHG5P
ReviewerName: MattB
Date: August 19, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great on most counts
Content:
I love taking photos with this camera! It's just what I needed to take my photography skills to the next level. The kit lenses are surprisingly good and light which are traits that don't often go together in lenses. It's quick compared to even the nicest P&S cameras (I had a Canon S3 IS before this). IS in the body is a nice feature so I don't have to buy more expensive lenses to get that feature. The jpeg white balance seems a little off (too much white by default) so I just shoot in RAW which gets around that problem. You can also adjust the white balance but I just decided I'd rather do it in post. Picasa does a good job with the RAW files so I don't have to use the Olympus software which seems kind of klunky to me. I may get Lightroom at some point when my finances have recovered to get a little more in-depth with post processing.
The live view feature sounded good on paper but really isn't that useful in practice. I might as well just take a photo and see how that looks instead of previewing with live view. If it's no good I can just delete it. 
The only really annoying thing about this camera is Olympus' proprietary USB connector. Why do they have to do that?!?! It takes what might have been a five star product down to four. There is no good reason to take a standard like a mini USB connection and change it to make your customers have to buy your special cables. But even with this gripe it was worth it. 
Auto focus in low light is not that great (slow) and it uses the flash to get a focus lock which can be distracting to your subjects and kind of kills the mood you often create in a low light situation. In sunlight the focus is quick and accurate.
I also got an Olympus Macro Extension Tube which is nice if you like to take some macro shots but don't want to spend the money on a whole separate lens. The tube with the 40-150 lens takes some nice macro shots (manual focus only) without breaking the bank.
Other recommended accessories would be a Zing neoprene pouch (Standard SLR size will fit with either lens) and some UV Protective filters to keep the optics clean and safe. 
Overall it's highly recommended if you're looking to break into the world of DSLR photography without having to take out a second mortgage.