ID: B000LSUUUQ-R2ZNLSJHLNEP25-A2L1X4P158L73U
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Holmes-HFH421-U-Heater-Adjustable-Thermostat
ReviewerID: A2L1X4P158L73U
ReviewerName: J. Blacker
Date: December 11, 2008
Helpful: 13 of 13
Rating: 5.0
Title: *gamer tested
Content:
Here in MI things get cold quick and living in a cold finished basement makes things tough. My computer room is a tiny 6x10 and doesn't have vents for heat. The hallway near the doorway lacks them as well so it gets very cold. When I saw this heater for [...] i figured to give it a try for that room. 
The heat is just about instant. No waiting for it to warm up. The thermostat works nice to keep the room at a very comfortable level. Nice to have so you don't have to keep adjusting and turning on and off. Sound is very quiet. Much more quiet than my normal desk fan, but it sits on the floor under the desk. I just realized its sitting right on the carpet and I wouldn't worry about it falling over or anything. It is very sturdy and kicking it somewhat gently doesn't knock it over. The unit is very cool to the touch even while running. I actually picked it up while running and was examining the bottom. 
I was kinda disappointed about one thing. From the picture on the box I assumed it would oscillate which would be a cool feature, but since its only [...] its not a big deal at all. It does have a swivel base that turns about 45 degrees either way, but with it being so light I don't see a point.
This unit is 1500 watts ... um or amps ... whichever the case, my computer is a gamer computer and it draws ... a lot. So the point is that when I am gaming, I have noticed that every time the heater kicks on the lights dim a little bit just for a split second since I have them both running off the same circuit. I don't know if I would put them in the same outlet ... but then again nothing goes into the same outlet as the PC anyways.
Pros: light, quiet, instant heat, doubles as a fan, PRICE!
Cons: not really any unless you need one that oscillates or you are going to land an airplane with your Christmas lights this year.