ID: B000EWFGUS-R3JVQM4JG4V8LR-AWB2J9W15OT6I
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Hamilton-Beach-43253-Ensemble-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: AWB2J9W15OT6I
ReviewerName: Mom2Three
Date: February 9, 2008
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 2.0
Title: Not So Great for Me
Content:
Well, I hate to go against the flow, but the coffeemaker just wasn't so great for me. I bought it based on great reviews and its good looks. I was currently using a Braun Flavor Select (which is no longer made), and it had begun to leak on occasion - not to mention that it is white, and stained in places from years of exposure to coffee-making. Not wanting to replace it solely based on aesthetics, when it began to leak from time to time, I then justified the purchase of a new machine. I have several red accents in my kitchen, and this coffee maker seemed just the ticket.
Well, the first unit arrived at my house broken, which was very sad, but Amazon quickly issued a prepaid return label, and I just simply ordered another one. It arrived on my doorstep in 3 days. Took it out, cleaned everything and set it up for the morning ritual of coffee brewing. Big letdown the next morning. The coffee was weak and had a funny bitter flavor. I use Starbuck's coffee, and my Braun always delivered a smooth, rich cup of Joe. But this was watery and bitter, and tasted like bad diner coffee. I didn't freak, because I figured that adjustments would have to be made for quirks and differences in the machines. So the next morning, I increased the amount of coffee grounds that I used, and the result was slightly stronger coffee, but still a funky aftertaste. I have tried different things now for a week, but my coffee still tastes weird. I am using more coffee, and getting poorer results. Not good. In addition, the water level window on this unit is on the wrong side for the layout in my kitchen, and I find the opening where you pour the water to be kind of hard to use. These are minor issues that I would be more than willing to overlook, if the unit brewed great coffee, but it just doesn't do it for me. 
This unit uses basket filters vs. cone filters in my Braun. Also, it is quieter than my Braun. My Braun makes noises almost resembling a percolator, and so I know there must be differences in the way they actually force the water through the grounds. I do not claim to be a coffee expert, but I know what I like, and this coffeemaker just isn't it. I kept my Braun, and I'm glad I did. I cleaned it up the best I could and I'll just deal with the occasional leaks. When it eventually dies for good, I hope I'll find a replacement that suits me. What I'm going to do with this one, I don't know.