ID: B000V5LX00-R2480NLPH4RYB3-A34UEBDU8IYLV7
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-1Ds-Mark-III-Digital
ReviewerID: A34UEBDU8IYLV7
ReviewerName: MarkABee
Date: February 21, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: SeattleAmateur
Content:
Canon EOS 1Ds Mark III 21.1MP Digital SLR Camera (Body Only)
I am an advanced amateur and was using the 5D Mark I for the past 2.5 years.  I loved the images but hated the focusing.  In any kind of shot that involved focusing on a subject moving at walking speed, (or less) the 5D would fail to snap into focus.  The second shot would never be in focus.  In lower light situations (typical interior lighting, not candles), the 5D was even worse. Sometimes the focusing would force the lens to go to maximum close/distance as the 5D hunted for focus - even when the lens was basically in focus to start - this was guaranteed to miss the shot.
The 1Ds, on the other hand, is great at focusing.  Super fast, subjects snap into focus quickly, and focusing continues onto 2nd shots and more.  And it will focus on lenses that are 5.6 and above - something the 5D did not do (try a telephoto with a filter or extender).  From what I can read, the new 5D Mark II has basically the same focusing system so it is not improved in this area.
What kind of shots am I talking about?  Shots of people,kids, basketball, soccer, bands, parades, candids on the street, street life, travel, animals in the wild or at home - I would include most everything except still life/landscape photos. Generally any shot you would not be making with a tripod is a situation where the 1Ds' focusing is vastly superior to the 5D.
High resolution is great.  But out of focus shots are not keepers.  
Finally, the 1Ds Mark III is much more solid than the 5D - everything from the controls to the shutter sound.  I love this camera.  My only wish is that it were the same size as the 5D since most shoulde camera bags don't account for its height.  I don't mind the weight since the the weight of the lenses I am carrying is much heavier than the camera.