ID: B0006ABOAE-R20G7PSOVCN2LY-A3C2I43NDAIYBO
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Mr-Coffee-ECM21-Espresso-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3C2I43NDAIYBO
ReviewerName: Andrew Hugelier
Date: April 26, 2008
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great value, good coffee.
Content:
As many people reviewing this item, I was quite skeptical about this machine. Seemed way too cheap to get everything promised. This is definitely one time that I'm glad I trusted the reviews. I've used this machine for about 3 weeks now, and can definitely say it does the job really well. The big question when I bought it was, how can it be that cheap? The answer is that they skimped on some of the materials used - most of the machine is plastic, and this will probably not make it very durable over time. However, if you're not beating the hell out of your kitchen appliances, you should get quite a bit of use out of it, certainly way more than your money's worth, and let's face it, that's why you would purchase this machine anyway, right? To save money!
A lot of reviewers have gone in depth with how the features work in real use, so I'll just mention what stuck out to me as the big differences between this machine and others I've used. 
First, I'm quite picky about my coffee, so I wanted to replicate it as close to my local coffeehouse as much as possible. I went to my local Stumptown vendor (local roaster in Portland) and asked for the ratio they use to brew their coffee. After doing some math, it turns out this would be about 2.5 tablespoons per 6 oz. cup (this machine measures in 6 oz. cups). This worked well, but I found that you lose about 1.5 oz. of water in the brewing process, so add extra for that.
Also, a big plus was the espresso carafe. It allows me to make two drinks simultaneously, which is perfect. My girlfriend and I tend to drink just coffee during the week, and a round of cappucinos on the weekend. It's not quick in the brewing process for either function, so its not feasible to spend that much time to make a cap during the week. Coffee brewing is not that bad, I just put it on in the morning and then get ready, and when I come back its done.
Overall, really happy with it, and hopefully it will stand the test of time!