ID: B000HHYISQ-R57IKEBZP713O-A3KG6JTUHHZVAV
Category: Laptops
Product: Dell-Latitude-C640-Notebook-Computer
ReviewerID: A3KG6JTUHHZVAV
ReviewerName: Whereeaglesnest
Date: December 9, 2007
Helpful: 26 of 26
Rating: 5.0
Title: Awesome laptop for the price!
Content:
I have owned the 1.8 P4 version for 2 years and I am considering buying one just to have should anything happen to this one. Even by today's standards this is a very good laptop. The ONLY drawback is that there is only 1 USB port and it is 1.1 but that is very easily solved with a $15 PCMCIA card with USB 2.0 ports. This is not a "gamer" laptop but it is a serious workhorse that you can adapt in so many ways to your needs that you can't with most even today. For example, if you tend to need more battery time than the DVD drive (I upgraded my CD to a DVD burner) then just pop out the DVD and pop in an extra battery. Or like in my case I wanted more hard drive so I bought a 100 gig to replace the main hard drive and by doing a little surfing online I found a parts place that sells an enclosure for a second hard drive that fits perfectly into the DVD slot, so since I do not need the DVD very often I have another 100 gig drive in most of the time, how cool is that!? Add to that that it has S video out, vga out plus a keyboard port in case you prefer a regular keyboard when at home. The video is a respectable 32 meg ATI and I have run some games and applications that were not suppose to be able to run on it according to specs. This laptop only accepts 1 gig total memory but under XP that is fine and will keep you moving along smoothly. I ordered mine with the wireless networking card (802.11b but you can buy very cheaply a G card that will go right in to replace the B card or if yours doesn't come with a card you can add one VERY cheaply) and the speeds are so close to my G PCMCIA card that I use the B card built into mine with my G router.
When you really look at just what your getting for a comparable price these days, for everything this one is capable of I cannot recommend grabbing one of these enough, it is sturdy, nice size screen (14.1) and just an overall feeling of confidence in this laptop because it "feels" durable. When these were brand new I'm told you could not by them as an individual as they were only meant for business purchasers.
Bottom line: you want something worth the money this is it no question. Admittedly I put another $200 into mine but that was all upgrades to the memory and DVD and adding another hard drive. As it comes it is an awesome deal in today's market will run rings around many laptops in the same price range.
In case you missed it through all the techie talk, buy this laptop! 
Dell Latitude C640 1.8 GHz Pentium 4 256MB/60GB/CD Drive Notebook Computer