ID: B00023XKL6-R1K3BKYDVTIDS0-A30Z22GDU2JWLF
Category: AirConditioners
Product: Soleus-Air-MAC-12-Evaporative-Dehumidifier
ReviewerID: A30Z22GDU2JWLF
ReviewerName: Joe Bruin
Date: July 16, 2006
Helpful: 17 of 17
Rating: 1.0
Title: don't waste your money
Content:
I didn't buy the soleus mac12K at amazon but rather from a retail outlet here in southern CA.  After being disappointed with an earlier purchase that I made online, I decided to go into a brick and mortar store and ask the relevent questions.
I was told by the salesman that the reason that the previous air conditioner doesn't work was becuase of the single hose exhuast.  The soleus, with it's dual hose design and 12000 btu of cooling power would make my 170 sq ft room freeze.  That turned out to be an outright lie.
I started out by testing the air conditioner in the living room with a sliding door.  The unit worked well for the first few minutes, cooling the room from about 90 to 87 degrees.  Then the compressor would stop running and the cooling mode acted like fan mode and started heating the room back to over 90 degrees.  I would be able to get the compressor to work again by unplugging the ac plug and then starting the ac again.  The same problem repeated.
Then I moved the air conditioner into the kitchen.  It was about 95 degrees to begin with and it only got to 92 and did not drop even after an hour. There were no problems here with the compressor turning off for no reason. 
Then I moved the air condtioner into the bedroom.  It was able to cool the room down only a few degrees.  Besides being loud, it also takes up a lot of current, 12A to be exact and 1350W of power.  This would repeatedly trip up the circuit breaker if other appliances such as iron or computers were to be used that were on the same circuit.
The air conditioner appeared to work better when the outside temperature was below 80 degrees.  But even then, it does not cool the room below 72.  But with the outside temperature in the mid to upper 90s, the room would be in the mid to upper 80s.  About the only thing that worked as advertised was that there was no bucket to empty. 
I ended up returning the unit after a week with a 25% restocking fee.  I was offered an exchange but didnt' even bother.