ID: B000EBA03M-R1PHBY75HJQ63W-A3V5ZVZBZM3OGK
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Digital-Camera-18-180mm-f3-5-f6-3
ReviewerID: A3V5ZVZBZM3OGK
ReviewerName: Morgan The Organ
Date: April 20, 2007
Helpful: 14 of 14
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent entry DSLR for budget photographers
Content:
Like many people, I debated and debated, read countless reviews, and watched prices for weeks... for me, it pretty much came down between the E500 and the 8MP Rebel. (The 6MP Pentax D100 was in the running, too.) Finally, I pretty much decided that based on the reviews for the E500, it seemed like people who know their way around SLR cameras enjoyed it, whereas the complaints mostly seemed to be lack of ease by those coming from the P&S camp. That being said, Olympus does make fine cameras. So does Canon. So does Nikon. As I saw it, it's pretty much like the old Ford verus Chevy debate: just as many people can tell you why one is superior to the other. When it comes down to it, all cameras (like all cars) have their stong points and their weak points. And depending on what you're using a camera for, different aspects will weigh more heavily than others.
For instance, for me, price was a big concern. This is, hands down, the best deal. I picked up a factory demo refurbished 2-lens kit. I don't think I can list the price in the review, but it was the cheapest among the 8MP cameras. And the two lenses are both made-for-digital. Somewhat limited by Olympus' 4/3 platform, but any camera you buy if you want good glass in front of it, you'll be spending as much as the body. Or more. Top of the line lenses are not cheap... anywhere, from any maker. These Zuiko lenses seem solid though, and I can't complain about them. I do wish there were more AF options versus what basically amounts to a center-focus option only. There are 3, but they're very close to the center. Minor irritation, though; just focus on your subject, hold the shutter down halfway, and then frame your shot. Really no different than lining up those two circles on older 35mm lenses.
I like the overall ergonomics of the camera. It's just big enough that it has some heft, but not too heavy to weigh you down. (Granted, I'm a 6'1" guy with average-sized hands.) However, it does feel a little plasticy, but coming from a Pentax K-1000, I think anything will. And having worked at a photography-based company in the recent past, I got a little spoiled on the Nikon D1 series; however, the D50 (and to a lesser extent the D70) felt more like a toy. But the E500 fits in my hands nicely. I actually really like the way the lens sits almost all the way over to one side, with an ample grip on the opposite. Makes for strong handling on vertical shots, even one-handed. 
Photos are great. Very sharp, very crisp. Colors have a nice vibrancy. Tones are balanced. I've seen a few complaints about noise in higher ISOs, but I didn't see anything too out of line. Plus, there's noise reduction, which takes it down to pretty much nil. Anything that's left, nothing a basic photo-editing program can't take care of in a second. I think the "blur" complaints are from people used to P&S photography. I've shot down to 1/15 or so with no more blur than expected. It's just a matter of knowing how to hold a camera and maintain a firm stance. As someone who loves black-and-white shooting, the color filters for the momochrome mode are a nice touch. They can really make the images pop. I've been happy with the all the settings; it has lots of scene modes, lots of little ways to tweak the images as you shoot, too (high key/low key, vivid, muted, etc). The flash sits up a little higher than other cameras, too, so there's less of a chance of catching shadow on closer shots. The flash can be a little bright and slightly distracting when in auto-focus focus-finding (pre-flash). Again, though, not a huge deal. 
Now the menu IS a little convoluted. It could be more user-friendly and intuitive. But it's nothing that a reasonably adept photographer can't figure out after reading the manual and playing around a little bit. A second command wheel would be nice, but hey, you're here for an economical camera, and you're going to have to cut a few corners, I guess. All the commands of a second wheel are there, just back in the menu. Some way to set "hot buttons" or something could compensate some, too, but again... think value.
My only other "complaint," which is more of just a minor annoyance than anything, is the location of the power swith and the rear dial for adjusting aperture and/or shutter speed. Sometimes when changing settings, I'll trip the power and turn it off. Startup is quick, though, so it's not a biggie. And sometime when repositioning myself and moving the camera around, I'll inadvertently change the aperture or shutter (depending on which mode I'm shooting in). Either moving it more to the top, making it harder to turn, or making some sort of setting "lock" would help.
Anyway, bottom line: if you're a 35mm SLR user wanting to make the switch to digital, and price is a deciding factor, just go ahead and get this camera. It's a solid camera that takes great pictures, and is likely just as good as any of the other--more expensive--options. If you're impatient and just want a better point-and-shoot, get another point and shoot. And if you're a fancy-schmancy professional, why are you looking at this budget camera? ;)