ID: B0000AFX53-RBACKQQWUXYUF-A2G5U37DRWZGGN
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Krups-468-42-Moka-8-Cup-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A2G5U37DRWZGGN
ReviewerName: Nancy Stone
Date: October 6, 2005
Helpful: 12 of 12
Rating: 4.0
Title: Finally, Home Brewed Coffee Without the Rolaids
Content:
After a brief flirtation with the Bodum electric Santos, which is a badly constructed contraption at any price, I kept searching for a machine that would give me a very good, rich, nonacidic cup of coffee without the circus act.  I think I've found it in the Krups Moka Brew.  The coffee is truly rich, flavorful and hot.  The machine is well-made, with an 8-cup glass carafe.  The housing is a durable plastic with metal lid and hotplate.  Even using ordinary beans that have been sitting around for months, I get a great cup of coffee.  In fact, this machine has inspired me to buy a burr grinder and some high society beans.   Yes, you have to search for filters online or by phone, but that's easy.  The manual suggests grinding the beans somewhere between espresso and drip for best results.  You may have to try a few cups before you get the grind/amount to your liking.  It might be inconvenient if you entertain a lot, as the capacity is 8 cups at a time, but I plan to buy a vacuum carafe for that.  You can't program this machine, but it only takes minutes to set up and get a cup of great coffee.  So far, I am really happy with this coffeemaker.  This is the best home brewed coffee I've tasted.
UPDATE:  I've been using the machine for several weeks.  Still love it, but a few addenda.  I bought a thermos to transfer coffee after brewing if I am not going to drink it right away:  the water heating element beneath the warming plate is not sufficient to keep the coffee hot once it is brewed.  The filter basket could be larger.  As others have noted, you need to tamper the grinds for large pots of coffee so they don't spill over the filter basket.  If you're brewing less than 3 cups of coffee, you have to guess the amount of water needed as there are no marks for 1 and 2 cups.  Pouring the water into the reservoir is slightly awkward.  All this being said, I consider these minor inconveniences.  I still get a piping hot, smooth cup of coffee with this Krups, and I recommend it to anyone appreciates the difference a good brewing process makes.