ID: B0000EI9VR-R2ETF1H982CJWM-A1BCCO8SJNIF9B
Category: MP3Players
Product: iriver-H120-20GB-MP3-Jukebox
ReviewerID: A1BCCO8SJNIF9B
ReviewerName: "mvp_55"
Date: July 16, 2004
Helpful: 8 of 10
Rating: 2.0
Title: Non-biased Review
Content:
The ihp120 is the first mp3 player I've owned, but I have experience with the first gen ipod because my brother owns it.  That said, any reference I have to an mp3 player is one that was made 3 years ago(?).  Hardware:You read many reviews of this player that say the build quality is excellent.  Nothing is perfect and there are hardware related problems.  The US model uses cheap black metallic paint on the outside.  It has already chipped off on many places around the front and sides of my player.  The joystick is uncomfortable to use and to add insult to injury, the scrolling speed for moving down your music list is very slow.  The analog line output is poorly implemented--it's still controlled by the main amplifier which is subject to the volume control.  It's basically just another headphone port.  Software:Where to begin?  The database functionality is extremely poor.  Many have already commented on this so I won't elaborate.  You will be forced to use the file tree mode because of this.  The display is cluttered with useless graphics making long titles unreadable.  You are forced to see the folder name, song, and artist.  You can't change folder name to something more important, like say album title.  The only name that scrolls is the song title.  And the scroll is ugly.  You will have to use the default &quot;scroll&quot; which just refreshes the name to show the cut off characters.  One function that doesn't work that I wanted is a normal shuffle.  The reason why I and many others bought a HDD mp3 player is becuase we have large mp3 collections.  I wanted to be able to shuffle through my entire player or playlist so I don't hear the same songs/artists over and over.  But the ihp120 doesn't have a real shuffle, so you will hear the same songs in shuffle mode over and over again.  Pathetic.  And this is an existing function, not some new function like On The Fly playlists.  I'm scared to see how that will actually be implemented.  Another thing I didn't like about the ihp120's playlist was that you could never see what songs made up a playlist.  Unless you memorized how the playlist was created on your PC, you're out of luck on where you are in the thing.And those wanting to use this to record will be upset to know that recorded audio gets corrupted regardless of analog or digital input.Customer Support:One word: NONE.  The only customer support they provide is giving people replacement players.  Getting a replacement player does not address any of the issues above.  They ignore and mislead their customers.  Just visit their internation website and check out their forum.  If you are a die-hard Amiga owner and are used to non-existent customer support, you'll feel right at home here.The POSITIVE:Not all things are bad, and there are somethings that the ihp120 does well.  Radio function is good--unless you want to record from it (which was advertised as a function).  The digital outs work.  The only thing I can recommend this player for is to use it as a 20GB removable hard drive.  So to summarize, this is not a good music player, but is a good USB hard drive.  If music is your passion and the reason you are looking for an mp3 player, please look elsewhere.