ID: B0009OR97E-R3EE88FNLN9DZ6-A1RWCAEPO7Y0PB
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Metropolitan-Professionals-ADM-4PNHSF-4-Horsepower-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A1RWCAEPO7Y0PB
ReviewerName: Nosewiper
Date: December 2, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 2.0
Title: Mine's on its way back, and I'm coughing up the money for a Miele...
Content:
The classic look of the Metro was what caught my eye, and then I was seduced by the horsepower and the fact that this machine is made in the USA.  I have long said that if some American company really wanted to reclaim its market from China, all they needed to do was go back to building a vacuum cleaner that is built to last, rather than disposable.  In fact, if the US were serious about helping the environment, Congress should pass legislation against the planned obsolescence that is the guiding principle of the vacuum cleaner industry.  
But I digress.  What came out of the box was, well, a canister.  Steel, with chrome-plated ends--not as pretty as pictured; quite utilitarian-looking and mostly reminiscent of a tin can.  There was a nice, sturdy-looking hose, quality steel wands, and one very cheesy, probably Chinese, powerhead.  Oh, and some equally cheesy small attachments: an undersized upholstery attachment, crevice tool, and dust brush.
The steel is a unique look, and the body and wheels seemed sturdy.   The switch is indeed a plain metal three-position toggle.  The cord wraps around a "halo" of metal at the rear end.  One disturbing feature is that the hose is secured by metal pushbuttons into the bag compartment.  This means that in order to remove the hose (say, to clear a clog or use as a blower), you have to remove the bag lid.  I was afraid to push the hose into the exhaust opening (which would be necessary to clear a clog or use as a blower) for fear that the pushbuttons would make it impossible to remove.  The "instructions" consist of a single sheet of Xeroxed paper containing very little useful information.  Bags are hard to find;  the ones offered here on Amazon are NOT the right ones for this machine, and I ordered more by calling the manufacturer, since their website was essentially useless.
This is not what I'd expect from a machine at this price point, but for "Made in USA" and power I put it to work, and power it does deliver--though with some tradeoffs.  The canister, for its plain looks, works well, but as previous reviewers noted, it does get very hot during use.    It BLASTS air out the back end--which my kids found fun, but which meant that I had to hold it pointing upward so as to avoid blowing dust across the hard floors I was vacuuming. The power was substantial enough to actually USE one of the turbo-brush stair tools that were absolutely useless with the Bissell machines they came with.  Noise was significant, but not awful--much of it the sound of that rushing exhaust.  There was some odor of burning rubber, maybe from the powerhead, and several kids complained that the exhaust stunk.  
Moreover, the powerhead rattled.  And when I opened it up to find out why (a nasty process involving two sizes of screwdrivers), I saw that a part was broken during manufacture--not surprising, because this powerhead is made of extremely cheap components which can't withstand the stress of being screwed into place.  Worse still, I noted that I was going to have to screw and unscrew this cheap plastic each time a change of belt was required.  Replacement powerheads are a hundred dollars from the manufacturer--and probably worth about five.  (For the record, I noticed this same chintzy powerhead with a Royal canister vac in the store, albeit with some cosmetic changes.)
So, mine's on its way back to Amazon, and I've sprung for an even more expensive, German machine that will (hopefully) last awhile.