ID: B000G1CY02-RAOHAZVBIE4HX-A3NMYOY2NPE46H
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-HHP1500-Safeheat-Mica-Panel-Heater
ReviewerID: A3NMYOY2NPE46H
ReviewerName: K. LaPierre
Date: November 30, 2009
Helpful: 14 of 14
Rating: 1.0
Title: If you want a great heater that'll die in 1 year or less, buy this one. Great product with short life span.
Content:
I purchased my machine in September of 2008. A year and two months later my heater began to give off random sparks. At first I dismissed it as a random spike, but soon afterwards I began seeing these lava colored burn marks on the heater. I stopped using the heater altogether out of fear that it was gonna catch on fire. Unfortunately for me this heater only has a one year warranty and my heaters warranty expired two months ago. 
Just like the positive reviewers on this product, I used to love my heater. A week ago I would have given this heater 5 stars. For the first year it really worked well. The only real problem I had was that it was slightly noisy. I loved it so much that I purchased a second heater for another family member. I wonder how many reviewers who gave this product 5 stars still have a functioning heater. I think a good number of them just never came back to revise their reviews. 
I purchased the heater because it received great reviews on [...]and from reviewers on this website (Amazon.com). I ignored the negative ratings because usually I have found the ratings on [...] are reliable. It made the decision easy because they do all the research for you. The consensus of reviews from a variety of websites so it kinda gives the impression that if so many different reviewers gave this heater a good rating, you can't possibly go wrong, but thos reviews are only rating the first few months of use. My review is a review based on a years worth of use. Don't give into the temptation to defer to the deceptivly positive reviews for this product. Please don't buy this heater if you want your heater to last more then a year. 
Your probably not gonna listen because i didn't, but hopefully this review will help save one or two of you a few pennies.