ID: B0000X7CMQ-ROB6VW42GXYIQ-AJP50EQHJ9PX8
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Zojirushi-EC-BD15-Thermal-Carafe-Coffee
ReviewerID: AJP50EQHJ9PX8
ReviewerName: simone
Date: February 22, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 4
Rating: 2.0
Title: Wow, $86 and I don't get perfection
Content:
I have a Zojirushi bread maker that I bought used.  I adore it.  It continues to work well despite its age.  I expected the same simple quality in this coffee pot.
My biggest disappointment with this product is the carafe.  I specifically wanted a thermal carafe to keep coffee warm without wasting additional electricity and without scorching the coffee by leaving it on a hot plate.  This carafe is not a thermal carafe.  The coffee cools quickly after brewing.  I complained to the manufacturer, thinking there was a problem.  Zojirushi's response was that I should first fill the carafe with hot water, pour that down the drain, and then brew coffee.  Well, then it's NOT a thermal carafe if it cannot keep coffee hot!  This is merely a brushed steel carafe.
The coffee that this pot brews is tasty with no noticeable interference from the pot but we have noticed inconsistency.  Sometimes using the same amount of coffee and water produces coffee that is noticeably stronger than the last time, requiring the addition of several cups of water.  Sometimes it is a weaker.
Yes, the water gauge is simple and easy to read.  It works better than many similar water gauges on other machines I've used.
I have to fold the filters a lot smaller than I have for cone brewers that I owned in the past.  This is because the machine uses rare #3 cones.  The #4 is too big but you can carefully approximate #3 by folding.
Be careful placing the filter in the cone.  If anything is not right, the maker continues to fill the brew basket, resulting in an overflow.  A coffee maker of this price should have some fail safe measures.
Once in my pre-morning daze, I forgot to place the carafe on the plate.  A coffee maker that boasts "pause and serve" should stop brewing when the carafe is removed.  It does not.  You have 30 seconds or the brew function resumes, with the risk that the brew basket will fill up and overflow, flooding your counter top with coffee and grounds.
Sometimes you think you've correctly placed the pot on the plate but when you double check, it's off center.  Again, this mistake can flood your kitchen.
Sometimes the carafe lid is inexplicably tight.  Perhaps there is enough vacuum suction that it seizes?  Keep trying and it mysteriously loosens enough that you can turn the lid.  The lid also gets liquid trapped inside that for some reason does not drip out when left on a dish drainer or in an empty sink.  It really grosses me out to think what is in that lid!
This coffee pot brews coffee okay but for $86, it is overpriced and you are being ripped off.  At this price, no one should be mopping up, drinking cold coffee, etc.  For 50 or 60 dollars less, I could have a brewer that functions just as well as this does, if not better.