ID: B000U6FUQI-RS6RNAS4RB0EL-AISOR409IV64E
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dirt-Devil-0313SLV-Cordless-Cleaner
ReviewerID: AISOR409IV64E
ReviewerName: Laura Mcmillan "Laura"
Date: February 21, 2008
Helpful: 49 of 50
Rating: 5.0
Title: Perfect for what it's meant for....
Content:
The Dirt Devil Kruz is perfect for daily vacuuming around the house.  I received mine for Christmas and have used it every day since.  I have a big dog who sheds (A LOT) plus an eight year old son who runs in and out of my house with the other 4 kids that live on our street.  If you purchase the Kruz with the expectation that it will replace your daily sweeping....you will be THRILLED.  It picks up dog fur, cookie crumbs, and dirt/dried grass in your kitchen and around the front door perfectly. I agree with the review that compares the Kruz with a dustbuster.  That is exactly the amount of power that it has and the Kruz also holds about the same amount of debris (a little more actually). 
The things I love about the Kruz are: 
* It is cordless and lightweight.  It sits on the charging base during storage so it is always ready to go. It releases from and latches back onto the base easily. 
* The gliding action across the floor while vacuuming is effortless and feels very futuristic.  My son loves to use it because it feels so cool. Plus,I can let my eight year old use the Kruz without worrying about him taking a chunk out of our furniture! (you know that sound when your electric vacuum rams into your coffee table or kitchen table legs!)  The Kruz isn't heavy nor cumbersome enough to do damage.
* The swiveling triangle head is shaped perfectly to manuver into corners and under/around kitchen cabinets and tables. The Kruz is also very gentle on your hardwood floors-no scratches. I use mine to "refresh" my bathroom rugs and also to clean my jute runner.
* It is very easy to empty the debris.  Just push a button and the receptacle pops right out...bang it lightly into the trashcan, pop it back on and you are done.  I empty the Kruz everyday when I am finished...it is never full.
Again, if you are looking for daily vacuuming.....or light cleaning several times a week-this is the perfect lightweight floor vacuum for you.  The Kruz doesn't (and isn't meant to) compete with your electric vacuum cleaner.  But it sure is a lot easier to grab and use on a daily basis than your electric vacuum...and a lot more fun to operate.
I am very happy with my Kruz and I would highly recommend it for use in the above conditions.