ID: B000HEA7LQ-R3A4WJT7HW87OH-AL8O528G15320
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Mr-Heater-Natural-Garage-MHU45NG
ReviewerID: AL8O528G15320
ReviewerName: L. Sprinkle
Date: April 10, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 1.0
Title: You get what you pay for
Content:
We used an unvented natural gas heater in our garage for several years.  With many more cold days this past winter, we began having concerns with the excess amount of moisture and condensation produced by non-venting.  Having already roughed-in the electrical and thermostat wiring for a unit heater when the garage was built, we decided it was time to switch to a vented heater.  
We looked at the Modine and Big Maxx heaters and selected the Big Maxx 45 when it went on sale for $399 at Northern Tool.  We ordered the heater and had it shipped to a store in our area to avoid shipping charges.  The heater arrived much quicker that we anticipated.  Our original plan was to install the heater sometime during the summer and be ready for next winter.  The next weekend was nice weather so we decided to go ahead and install the Big Maxx.
Since the heater needed to mount at a 45 degree angle to the room, we mounted unistrut channel to the ceiling joists and mounted the heater thereto.  We used category I gas vent from Lowe's.   Installation was simple and straight forward.  Then we turned the heater on.
The induced draft motor made a LOT of noise and vibration.  Then the blower fan came on and you needed hearing protection to stay in the room.  In the bedroom above the garage, it actually sounded like someone was running a couple of hammer drills.  Being an engineer, I inspected both blowers to see why they vibrated so badly.  The induced draft blower had a nice looking squirrel cage blower but the shaft hole was drilled off center. The next day we took the heater down, boxed it up and returned it to Northern as defective.  
Next we ordered a Modine heater.  Installation was a little more complicated because we already had the hole in the wall for the vent.  We mounted this heater slightly differently to take advantage of the existing hole.  This heater required Category III venting for our installation so we ordered Z-Vent online.  The Modine heater is quiet as a mouse.  As they say, "you get what you pay for".