ID: B0000YTYGM-R30MYDTQRRBS0F-ACPCFG6PRVO6Y
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DTC-975BKN-Programmable-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: ACPCFG6PRVO6Y
ReviewerName: John
Date: February 21, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Very good coffee maker
Content:
After my last coffee maker recently died, I purchased the Cuisinart DTC975 to replace it.  However, the image that is on the Amazon website for the black model of this product is incorrect.  The black model's thermal carafe has a stainless steel facade with black trim, not the rather squat and all black one depicted in the image.  Look at the image on the same webpage for the white model and visualize stainless steel carafe and all black coffee maker body for the actual look of the black model. 
As far as the coffee maker is concerned, here are the PROs first
1.  Thermal carafe keeps the coffee very hot without any bitter taste even several hours after brewing the coffee
2.  The programmable feature is nice to have although I find myself turning the maker on manually as I am often unsure when I want to have coffee
3.  The combination of stainless steel and black body makes for a very attractive coffee maker
The CONs are as follows:
1.  The lid/top to the carafe is not the easiest to put on correctly.  If you do not have it lined up just right, it will not screw in securely
2.  The water reservoir level indicator is on the side so it is difficult to see when you are filling the reservoir with water.  Either estimate in advance how much water you need or line the coffee maker up so that you can see the water level indicator.
3.  Last but not least, the POUR arrow on the carafe's lid is not the easiest to see. As other reviewers have indicated, older folks may have a problem seeing it.
BTW, I have not experienced any of the overflow problems that some of the  reviewers have noted.  
Perhaps it is my imagination but the coffee seems to taste better even though I am using the same brand of whole beans for my coffee.  Also, I use a gold mesh filter and coarse grind for my coffee.  I recommend this coffee maker and am very happy that I purchased it, especially since I got it via Amazon Prime.