ID: B000FMZE7W-R3S9B17QLIRO3-A3A2CBZ0ROFMXK
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-White
ReviewerID: A3A2CBZ0ROFMXK
ReviewerName: soubrette
Date: December 17, 2006
Helpful: 12 of 26
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very happy with Zune
Content:
The Zune is my first mp3 player with any kind of large storage capacity (my previous one was 512MB and didn't last long).  I've been very happy with it, although I don't have much to compare it to.
The Zune hardware is really, really nice. It feels substantial and not at all cheap.  I found the controls quite intuitive and navigating through the interface quite easy.  The only thing I'd like to see is the ability to forward a bit in a track.  The Zune fits easily in a very tiny purse or in pockets.  The battery life seems quite acceptable - after about 10 hours, I still had 1/4 left on the battery.
Sound quality is really good, although the earbuds that come with it were too big for my ears.  I bought a different pair, which is no big deal to me.
The Zune software was a little challenging to set up.  There's a definite learning curve, and not a lot of documentation for it.  If you have a lot of music, I'd suggest that you first set up a directory for the stuff you think you'll want on your Zune.  Add that directory to the ones Zune watches, and then manually sync it.  It will save you some irritation, especially if you have a very large music collection.  The software is the one thing about the Zune that is kind of frustrating, but I think a lot of my problems were related to the fact that I didn't really understand the concept of syncing.  Now that I understand more, I don't have problems with the software.
The picture viewing functionality is nice, and you can select any of your pictures to use as your Zune's background (I love this feature.).  Picture quality seems pretty good and you can view pictures at your own speed or via a slideshow.  The pictures are helped by an amazing screen - everyone I've showed my Zune to is blown away by how good the screen looks.
I haven't tried any video, and am not likely too, as I want this for music.  
I highly recommend the Zune.  Lots of features, price is pretty typical for what it offers, and it works well.