ID: B000HBAHNW-RHEXVUSCVCCN6-A1ZAK0W9Y782IF
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-S5281-Callisto-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A1ZAK0W9Y782IF
ReviewerName: Brian H
Date: April 11, 2007
Helpful: 122 of 125
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good but expensive
Content:
Apparently 3rd in the hierarchy of 4 models in the new S5 series of Miele vacuum cleaners, the features, price, and accessories are not exactly linear in transition from lower to higher models, nor even across series.  Many of the older series models have more features and a higher price than the newer ones.  They have fancy names like Capricorn, Red Velvet, and Champagne, leading to much confusion and forcing you to compare each one similar to buying a car.  If your browser has tabbed browsing (e.g., Firefox), the best way to figure out which model is best for you is to go to Miele's website and open a tab for each model you're interested in.  Flip back and forth to see what text changes.  Callisto is the cheapest no frills model of the newest series (newest technology motor?) that still comes with an electronically powered brush (the 4th Pisces model is turbo).
After 3 months of extensive use:
Pros:
Agility - The 10 ½" wide SEB217-3 electric powerbrush comes standard, and one of the reasons I chose this model.  For me, smaller is better.  While other vacuums advertise large 13" power brushes to cover more area in a single swipe, I don't have much open carpet space.  Coffee tables, chairs, weight benches, and computers, all need vacuuming around and under.  The powerbrush swivels well to get around corners.
Brush duster - The most commonly used attachment (for me), the brush duster is also small (slightly larger in diameter than the hose) and the bristles are durable.  It's angled by default, but even this plastic piece swivels to straighten out.  This is not mentioned anywhere; you just have to figure this out for yourself.  On low power, I was able to vacuum places that never got vacuumed before, like over the spider web of computer cables and telephone wires.  I even vacuumed the telephone itself and other dust collecting objects on my desk.
Parquet floor brush - Initially, I wondered why Miele would include this accessory when the powerbrush was included, but this "wider brush duster" actually does a better job on hard tiled floors than the powerbrush.  The powerbrush seems more designed to churn up stuff from carpets, but the paraquet brush gathers and collects dust stuck to hard surfaces better.  On the negative side, you might have to vacuum the brush itself to unstuck the dust, and I wondered why they had to inconvenience the horse for "genuine horse bristles".  There is no permanent storage on the vacuum cleaner for the parquet brush, so you have to figure out how to ensure the parts don't get separated for life (the powerbrush takes precedence).
Cord rewind - The mechanical rewind sucked in the entire length of cord every single time, something like 15 for 15 times!  (The manual says to pull out the entire length of cord before use to help dissipate heat.)
Cons:
Price - After all, it's just a vacuum cleaner.  There also seems to be price fixing in the newer S5 series, at least when I bought this.  Everywhere I checked (maybe 10 websites), the price was exactly $799 or $799.95, with the only difference being no tax and/or free shipping.  One website even advertised "The lowest price allowed!"  What's a Diamond Dealer?  Is this Amway?
Release buttons - The release buttons on the attachments and hose are counterintuitive, being on the part that "comes off" rather than on the part that "stays behind".  Therefore, you must squeeze the button with the same hand you are pulling away with.  The hose extension button is particularly confusing.  It's an oval shaped rocker button that "rocks" very little.  To extend the stainless steel hose, you have to remember which side of the button (top or bottom) to press.  There is no distinction on which side to press, and it's always a matter of trial and error as I yank and tug at the hose while pressing top and bottom of the extension button.
Stiff no swivel hose - The hose rotates at the top (handle area), but does not swivel at the base where it connects to the machine.  Instead of disconnecting and reconnecting to get rid of twists, I'd rather pick up the powerhead and spin it around to get out the twists.  The flex hose diameter is larger than I'm used to, making the hose stiffer and difficult to store in the same closet where I used to store my old vacuum cleaner.  Considering the price, an electrical slip ring would have been nice.
Bag full indicator - The mechanical bag full indicator is actually an indicator of how much the vacuum cleaner is straining to suck.  Put your hand over the end to block suction and it will indicate bag full.  Right out of the box on short carpet, it indicated bag full on high power.  As I turned the power down, it indicated less full sequentially.  You have to read the instructions about using the floor tool with the tool slightly off the floor to get an accurate reading from the indicator.  Even at that, there are caveats about fine dust or pet hair that can fool the indicator.
Extra stuff? - The parquet brush comes attached with a short plastic extension that was difficult to plug directly into the stainless steel hose (button doesn't easily click into place).  The extension isn't needed to connect the parquet brush, so you have to remove it and keep track of where you put it.  To this day, I still haven't figured out what the extension is for, other than to connect other attachments that I might buy in the future.  This is yet another piece with no place to store on the vacuum cleaner that I must ensure does not get separated for life (along with the parquet brush, "normal" filter cage, and replacement bags).
Symbol marking - The power symbol markings are not obvious at all, contrary to claims.  Other than the symbols labels "Min" and "Max", you have to read the instructions to figure out what the other power symbols mean.  At least the power seems to increase sequentially as you turn the dial clockwise.  The Quite Mode is #4 of 6 settings (with 6 being the highest), and is therefore not actually the quietest but intended to be the "normal" operating mode.  I think most people will consider "Max" the default mode.
Optional filter frame - This model comes with a HEPA filter, so you don't need the filter frame unless you're going to switch to the "normal" filters, but brand-new right out of the box the frame for the normal filters came with a broken cheap plastic handle, apparently due to the way it was shipped with the handle protruding out the cardboard wrapping.  You don't even need the handle for the frame to function properly, but for the kind of money I paid, nothing should be broken out of the box.  The vendor that I bought it from (Best Vacuum) replaced it for free.
So is it worth $800?  It does a good job, but only time will tell...