ID: B000063XHI-R2INEXIS2D5V85-A1E7S6FRUVL6W7
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Capresso-440-05-Electronic-Coffeemaker-Thermal
ReviewerID: A1E7S6FRUVL6W7
ReviewerName: W. Williams
Date: June 15, 2005
Helpful: 15 of 16
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great Coffee, Worth the price
Content:
I've been using this coffemaker for about 6 months now and I figured it was time for a review. 
I was leary buying such an expensive coffemaker, but after the bad experience I had with a cheaper Krups (aka CRAP!) maker, I decided that it was worth it. I bought mine during one of Amazon's coupon events. The coupon notes indicated that Capresso wasn't eligible, but it worked anyway and I saved $25. 
Straight to the point. This is one great coffemaker! It is fast, elegant looking, and makes great hot coffee. I don't find much to complain about compared to some other reviewers. 
To me, this design is as good as any brew-through/sealed caraffe design and its not hard to use at all. The lid is easy to screw on and has precision threads. It fits under the basket easily and does not require any special alignment or fiddling like some have suggested. I have not had problems keeping the inside of the caraffe clean like some have mentioned. I use a few sprays of bleach spray every month or so and it keeps it looking like new, no stains whatsoever. The water/coffee is very close to 200 degrees according to my restaruant meat thermometer. With the caraffe closed, my coffee stays more than hot enough for up to 6 hours after brewing and never gets stale/oxidized or burnt. I would never buy an open caraffe design again.
 
The only problem I have with this maker is the design of the filter holder. It flips up/out very easily because it has a lip that sticks out of the front. That lip is in the same location as the lip for opening the top lid. If you have grounds in the filter, and close the lid, you have to be careful when you reopen the lid because it is easy to catch the filter holder  lip and you will spill grounds every where. Grounds will end up in the reservoir and down into the filter holder requiring some extra nuisance cleaning. You must get those grounds out because they will clog the valve in the filter holder and cause backups and/or make the valve stick open, which defeats the stop-n-pour feature. You also have to make sure the lid is on the caraffe before you start to brew, otherwise the valve will stay closed and the basket will overflow.
I've had overflow problems only twice in 6 months. Once, I ground the coffee too fine and it caused the gold filter to get clogged and backup/overflow. My fault. Another time, I forgot to put the lid on the caraffe since I was just running water through to activate a new charcoal filter. I left the room and came back to find 10 cups of hot water all over my counter. Again, my fault.
Other than those two times, the pot has worked flawless and made great coffee. I would give it 5 stars if the basket was designed a little better and had the adjustable brew rate like the more expensive Technivorm (which has its own problems too).
Bottom line, there is nothing inherently wrong with this design, it just takes a grain of caution when setting up and brewing, but no more than any other brew-through lid design. The benefits of the sealed caraffe outweigh the extra care needed.