ID: B00000JGRS-R31NNTEM1NZT6S-A1UVLZM51PPIFV
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-300BK-Automatic-10-Cup-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1UVLZM51PPIFV
ReviewerName: Rhuarc al'Thor
Date: August 3, 2006
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 4.0
Title: Not for regulars...
Content:
A little about my coffee drinking habits.  I usually drink 1-2 pots of coffee a day.  I used to drink only Maxwell House Master Blend.  Recently it seemed to be going bad faster than I could drink it, so I decided to give this coffee maker a shot.  It was given to us by my mother-in-law. 
First the pros:
1) Works as advertised - It really does do everything it says it can, and once you have everything setup it works wonderfully.
2)Programmable - A unique featuer here is that it can grind the beans on the timer as well, which is very nice.
3) Option to not grind - This is nice for those times when you get a bag of ground coffee somewhere else.  This way the grinder doesn't spin with nothing in it.
4 Coffee Pot - The coffee pot has a nice lid that is unlike anything I've ever seen.  It has a kind of flip hinge at the lip that helps direct the coffee while you are pouring, preventing spills.
5) Flavor system - A selectable dial allows you to tell the pot how many cups you will be making.  In reality all this is is a knob, that when you turn it to the lower cup settings it increases the flow of water into the filter basket, allowing the water to go through smaller amounts of grounds at a similar pace to larger amounts.
6) Temperature selector - You can tell it how hot (on a slding scale) you want the coffee to come out.  The water is heated more or less, then the hot plate is set to a higher or lower temperature.  I set it to come out very hot, since I then transfer the coffee to a thermal carafe.
Ok, and here are the reasons that I will possibly be switching to a different one:
1) Not convenient - When you go through sometimes 2 pots of coffee a day you have to clean the grinder lid, basket lid, and the filter basket/grinder bowl.  Each of these parts should ideally be dry before you actually use it, to allow the ground coffee to not stick while it is being directed into the filter basket.  
2) Lack of thermal carafe - After using a thermal carafe and having hot coffe that tastes the same for 4 hours, I am sorely dissapointed to have a unit again that is a glass carafe with a hot plate.  I have a thermos carafe that I pour the coffee into, and this works fine, but it is just one more step to do, one more piece to keep clean ,etc...
Actually, I think that is it.  If it weren't for these two problems, I would be sold.  Here is how my typical pot of coffee goes with my old coffee pot, versus with the Cuisinart.
I have a cheapo Black & Decker TCM700 coffee pot.  I love this thing.
When I used this my daily coffee went like this: 
1 - Pull out the filter basket, 
2 - Empty the basket, rinse it out, and replace, 
3 - Put in new paper filter, fill with ground coffee, 
4 - Rinse out thermal carafe, fill with water, pour water into resivoir.
5 - Turn on
And here is what I have to do with the Cuisnart:
1 - Pull off the grinder lid and assembly lid, rinse both these out.
2 - Pull out grinder/filter basket assembly, rinse these out.  Keep in mind that cleaning these parts is more difficult, because you actually have finely ground coffee that tends to stick to them.  To truly get all the residue off you can't just rinse them off, you have to wash with soap and water.
3 - Dry off parts.  At the very minimum the grinder lid, and the area where the coffee flows should be dry.
4 - Measure out beans and put assembly together
5 - Rinse out carafe, and fill resivoir with water
6 - Start brewing
7 - Turn off machine, pour coffee into thermal carafe
All in all this is a nice coffee pot, if you don't drink a lot of coffee.  I know some people will say that I can just use preground beans, but doesn't that kind of defeat the purpose of having a grinder built in?  Anyway, I still give this a 4 out of 5, because it really does do what it advertises and it does it well.  It's just the few little quirks that I can't get over.  Hope this review helps!