ID: B000WJCB9W-R1W0GNLRX3F9UL-ADX938ZG0J8KA
Category: MP3Players
Product: SanDisk-Sansa-Clip-Player-Blue
ReviewerID: ADX938ZG0J8KA
ReviewerName: Amy J. Cameron
Date: September 30, 2008
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 2.0
Title: So-So product, bad customer service from SanDisk
Content:
While it worked, this was a great product. When I purchased this product I was interested only in an mp3 player (no need for video too) and the Clip looked perfect. My Clip (blue) was used for approximately 2 - 2.5 hours per day during my lunch hour and during my workout. I purchased in mid-January and by late August the battery malfunctioned and refused to power on the player. I took a few trips around the internet to find any way to solve the problem that would not end with having to contact SanDisk's customer service. For my particular problem, warranty replacement was the only cure. It took three weeks of emails to customer service to finally get them to agree that the power issue would not be fixed by multiple downloads/installs of the latest firmware and agree to the return of my product for replacement. Then just over a week after I shipped my Clip to SanDisk I received yet another email that it would be 7 to 10 business days before I received the replacement product.
This little player was wonderful when it worked, but I won't be buying another SanDisk mp3 player, that's for sure. SanDisk customer service does not just email you, they send you an email telling you that you have received a message in your SanDisk eBox at their website and if you just follow the links you will be able to read the message and follow the appropriate customer service suggestions to repair your product. The eBox was only a slight annoyance compared to waiting days for any kind of response in the first place. And the suggestion that I repeat (three times) steps I had already taken in regard to the firmware and a soft reset and then reformatting the product got pretty annoying too. 
If you buy one and it works (and keeps working) great for you. If you buy one and the battery fails, forget customer service and just buy a new product. (I went with the Creative Zen.) I expect a new Clip from SanDisk (per the warranty) to arrive soon and plan to keep it in the box. If nothing else, it's at least a pretty product.