ID: B000WFZRZG-R168QRRTCW97VF-AMYVVOH8A9FCB
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Pink
ReviewerID: AMYVVOH8A9FCB
ReviewerName: Shun Yu "ClumsyPotato"
Date: July 10, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: One of the best mp3 player out in the market. With some flaw.
Content:
I received my Zune yesterday in the mail and I was really excited to open it and test it out. The packaging was nice and I really like their unique graphic designs, really different from the majority. The earphone has a nice magnetic design but I doubt it will be too much helpful in organizing the headphones. Everyone has said the good things about this mp3 player: nice interface (almost, as ill explain later), cool touchpad, small, lightweight, a change from the iPods. But mostly today I wanna explain some of the dissatisfaction that I have with this little device. 
First, although the interface is nice, it sometimes make you go around in a loop when you are trying to select songs or viewing photographs. If you have a photo that you buried deep in your jungle of photo collections. Selecting the photo in Zune will take you down to the sub-folder, then another sub-folder, and another till you finally reached it. When you finally done with view it, you have to press back button the same amount of times as you did when you tried to look for the picture.
The size of Zune is good, but not good enough, the thickness of the Zune is about the same as the thickness of my gf's iPod 2G with the silicone case on. I ordered a silicone case and I hope my Zune won't feel too bulky with the case on.
Another peev I have is the software, yes it's cool and easy too use to some people, I feel it's really frustrating that the syncing is no where near as smooth as iTunes. Sometimes it would start another batch just randomly so if your syncing 600 songs, it would end at 50% with 300 songs left and then the software would start from the remainging 300 songs at 0% and all the way till the end. 
The most annoy thing in the Zune is that it barely has any foreign language support, so all I see when I upload my Asian music collection is an array of boxes for the titles, not so attractive.
All in all, the Zune 8GB is a cool little device with some flaws. 4 Stars!