ID: B0000YTYGM-R330XU9R12H71Y-ABF0A8LJXVBU8
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DTC-975BKN-Programmable-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: ABF0A8LJXVBU8
ReviewerName: J. Ross
Date: June 17, 2007
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great, but not awe inspiring...
Content:
I haven't had the coffee maker long enough to know reliability, but it's a Cuisinart and I have never had a problem with any of their other products, so let's assume the same thing here. It looks pretty slick, although if your kitchen can handle it I would recommend the black and stainless, just because the white stains so quickly from the coffee, even if you're careful about washing it right away. 
What can I say - it's a nice coffee maker, but I'm not certain it's worth the price. I have always had regular coffee makers in the past, and I was very excited about the carafe option. However, in my experience, at the end of about six hours the coffee is already cool and not so tasty. Basically it has the shelf life of coffee in a thermos without the extra step, which is handy, but maybe not worth the extra cost compared to a regular coffee maker. If you know you're going to go through a couple cups in the morning then it sure beats making a cup, then cleaning the grinder and everything and starting over an hour later! I will say the instructions make it clear you should do a warm water run first to heat the carafe - maybe that makes the coffee stay hot much longer, but I don't have time for that in the morning. One reason I purchased this was for the programmable option (which is great), which means the coffee is ready for me first thing. If you have the time and energy to spend warming the carafe - knock yourself out...
I will also say that I see why some of the other reviewers were frustrated by the set up process. This is NOT a big deal, but you do have to pay attention. Once you've done it once your fine, but compared to the many coffee makers I have used in my day, this one is just a breath more intensive. The top needs to be perfectly sealed and pointed the right way, and the basket really does need to be pushed shut. Big deal? No, but you do have to pay attention.
Aside from that, it makes a nice tasting cup of coffee in a short time and I am pretty happy with it so far.