ID: B0007Y6BO8-R37JI1WN7YS9V4-A1F7LAP9H0KS41
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Krups-FME2-14-12-Cup-Coffeemaker-Carafe
ReviewerID: A1F7LAP9H0KS41
ReviewerName: J. Steck
Date: January 16, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 1.0
Title: My last Krups Coffeemaker
Content:
We've owned only Krups coffeemakers for over 10 years.  I like quality products and really like good coffee.  Until now, Krups always delivered.  When the heating element of our Pro Aroma died, I went looking for a new Krups.  At the time there were only a few reviews of the FME2-14, and nothing really negative, so I ordered one.  
From the moment I took it out of the box, I was disappointed.  It looks and feels like a discount model you'd buy at the BigMart. The handle of the carafe is attached with adhesive instead of a metal band, so it can't be cleaned in the dishwasher . . . according to the manufacturer.  Then I filled the carafe to run a pot of plain water through it.  Wait, the lid of the carafe is permanently attached and it won't open far enough to stay open by itself.  It's a minor annoyance, but still not up to the old Krups standard.  
The big disappointment came when I poured the water into the reservoir.  The carafe dribbled water everywhere.  After a couple pots of hot water I made my first pot of coffee.  We've been using a Mr. Coffee as our emergency backup and I was ready for a really good cup of coffee.  On that score it didn't disappoint, that's why I gave it 1 star.  But it did dribble hot coffee on the counter and floor.  
I called Krups and complained.  Their recommendation was to hold the lid open slightly while pouring . . . there was no way they were going to take the unit back or replace the carafe.  If you read previous posts, you'll find that directs hot steam onto your fingers and is not a viable option.  
To top it off, at 5 weeks it stopped heating.  That's 5 days beyond Amazon's warranty so it had to be shipped to a second-party repair facility.  They fixed the heating element, but did nothing about the dripping carafe.