ID: B000BY9A3I-R1SP5YOGD30T7L-AESCLR2NIY1NM
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dirt-Devil-082700-Vision-Canister
ReviewerID: AESCLR2NIY1NM
ReviewerName: kwolx "no lines online"
Date: December 4, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Dirt Devil Sports car
Content:
This was the first vacuum I've owned.  The house I live in now is mostly wood floors, which is why I bought a canister vacuum (they just do better than uprights for hard floors).  This does a great job on the hardwood floors!  However, I do have some rugs and a carpeted room.  The vacuum still performs well, but it needs a bit more attention than it would if I had an upright.  The canister does require frequent emptying.  I empty it about every other room (My house has 3 people and a cat, if that helps) and I vacuum weekly.  Emptying the canister is important, as I can see a marked improvement in suction after I empty the canister.  I also really like the attachments.  I can dust my book shelves and wood trim around the house with just a sweep of the wand.  The vacuum is also supposed to have places for the attachments, but I don't use the holders - I just keep them in a bag with the vacuum.  Another thing, the wand on the vacuum isn't made of steel, so it can bend - don't step on it like I accidentally did.  The attachments still fit, but I just have to push harder.  I suppose if it bends out of shape easily, one could bend it back just as easily.  The vacuum is light and easy to pick up.  Something I do run into is that it doesn't turn corners well (ex. if I'm going through a doorway into another room, the wheels stick out a bit so I often get snagged on the door frame).
Recap (with a few additions):
Pros - light weight, works well on hard floors, attachments are useful for dusting and such, easy to empty canister, retractable cord, continuum of suction intensity,no need to buy vacuum bags
Cons - should empty canister often (I don't mind, but I think some people would), no light on vacuum head, some extra attention needed for carpeted floors (but then again, it's not an upright which are recommended for carpets), wheels stick out and can get snagged on corners and door frames
Overall I like the vacuum and it fits my needs.