ID: B00005IBX9-R1A2ABK4F6BE3Q-A3QKTQOUER3FLK
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1200-Central-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A3QKTQOUER3FLK
ReviewerName: M. Larkin
Date: March 10, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent coffee, Easy to Use
Content:
Yes, it WOULD be possible to improve the design but I gave it 5 stars because I have a lot of experience with many coffee makers and this one surpasses all of them for coffee taste and ease of use.
A couple of things to watch out for:
   1.  If you are making 12 cups of coffee and like coffee very strong, use a paper filter rather than the gold mesh one that comes with the unit.  Do the same if you use a very fine grind of coffee beans.  If you use the gold mesh filter under either of those conditions, the grounds may overflow the unit.
   2.  After you are are done with the unit, if you want it to dry out (I recommend letting it dry between uses) you will have to stuff a rolled up paper towel (or similar thing) under the plastic top lid to keep it open a crack so it can air-dry.
   3.  The lid to the glass pot removes completely for filling and then snaps into place.  The snapping requires a little attention to the technique.
   4.  The unit is 14.2 inches tall and I am short.  I rely on the glass pot to measure water since I can't see into the unit when I pour into it (unless I step on a stepstool).  Also, it might not fit in some people's counter space due to the height.
   I've been using this product several times weekly (once 3 times in one day) for 3 months.  I usually make 8 cups of coffee at a time and I've been using the gold mesh filter.  
   The unit keeps the coffee hot and delicious for an hour before it turns itself off.  It beeps when the coffee is ready and beeps again when it turns itself off.  There is some kind of magic inside the pot that uses heat and controlled water flow to get just the right brew to make great coffee.  The glass pot permits me to see how much brewed coffee remains and to check if I have washed it well after I use it.  
   I never realized that a good coffee brewer could make such a difference in the taste of coffee.  I have been recommending this coffee brewer to all my friends.