ID: B000A3WS16-R8QMMCB65H6KY-AH5FLKVQAG7F6
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Video-White-MA002LL-Generation
ReviewerID: AH5FLKVQAG7F6
ReviewerName: C. Ozkurt "deluxe"
Date: June 19, 2008
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 1.0
Title: I hate I-pod
Content:
I bought this crap about 3 years ago, in this 3 years I waited for a moment to tag all my mp3's but I never find that time, then I find a folder browsing mp3 player and throw this junk out and I am glad that I did that.
So here is why I hate I-Pod
No folder browsing: You have to add tag on your every single old mp3's. there is some other mp3 player that they have this function for less, so you can see all the folders and mp3's like your your pc or mac. "No folder browsing" is very disturbing if you have mixed mp3's.
I-tunes is horrible: you have to use I-tunes to upload music, no drag and drop from drive to drive. I tunes is slow and useless. it is also making you pc slower even if you are not even using it.
File protection: if you upload your mp3's you can have them back to you pc or mac. With any folder browsing mp3 players you can do so.
No volume button: Yes Ipod looks cool but if you need to volume down quickly you have to wait 2 seconds, because volume button is also same as navigation. if you need instant mute you have to unplug your headphone.
and you look lame when you do that because you don't know where you are going to put the unplugged headphone jack.
Navigation button is too sensitive: if you are in the car, car is shaking so %50 of the time you are going to pick the wrong artist or song.
I had some moments that I was almost going to throw this junk out from the window.
Video is a joke: screen is too slow, forget about watching movies, you can watch just for 5 minutes then your eyes get crossed.
Where is the radio, sound recording? my new folder browing mp3 player has this function and works very good.
I don't want advertise what I have just search for folder browsing mp3 players, there is tons of them in the market.