ID: B000OK0YWK-R2PT4GIDXTH4SM-A20W2NNKTMUR4J
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Red
ReviewerID: A20W2NNKTMUR4J
ReviewerName: Travis Dockweiler "tdockweiler"
Date: November 20, 2006
Helpful: 8 of 34
Rating: 5.0
Title: Just as good as the iPOD, if not better!
Content:
First off, I own the third gen ipod that was 15gb and was just an LCD without color. It has the wheel and 4 buttons on top. No click wheel. I then upgraded to the Ipod Video and immediately disliked it and thought it was a step back in terms of usability. Sure, you have less buttons, but that doesn't make it better.
So, I disliked my Ipod video somewhat so I wanted something better. I bought this and connected it and installed the software. It does not ask you where you want to install it. Not only that but it automatically thinks I want to  upload all my video captures to my Zune and does so without asking me once. Of course I cancel that and change the options. It only took a few seconds. I had no problems with installing the software. Microsoft must think everyone is an idiot and just does everything automatic without asking. 
The transfer of my mp3 files to the Zune went ok and I never yet had the system crash. 
I checked my artist listings after the transfer and several were all named differently, but it's super easy to fix. You can rename multiple track names and artists at the same time.
Strangely, it doesn't download every single piece of CD art it finds. I click on a foreign language album and see art there, but it doesn't update. Only on certain albumbs. 95% of my american CDs had album art automatically downloaded. I just need to figure out if there is a way to NOT display the colored default album art for titles that have no artwork. Probably not.
The unit sounds good, but they need more EQ settings. The ipod has more options for this. Bass Boost or Bass Reducer like on the Ipod would have been nice. I also wish the volume could go a little higher. 20/20 is not enough for some songs/headphones.
I like the button on this. Not having a wheel is no big deal. I never liked the wheel anyway. It takes absolutely no effort to press the button on this unlike on some other units (Philips and those tiny silver buttons). To scroll up, you can hold it down instead of pressing the button over and over again.
I love the design. It's pretty much perfect. It's not a big deal, but I find it more comfortable to hold than my Ipod Video. I will admit though that the interface takes a few more steps to play music than the Ipod.
So far I honestly haven't found many negatives about the unit. I've just had ZERO problems with it and no I don't work for Microsoft! Once I find out a problem with it, i'll update this review. I do think the biggest annoyance is that the volume could be a little louder if needed.
No, it's not an Ipod killer, but it's just as good as the Ipod, if not better. I do think it's better in most ways. It's not as simple and easy to navigate in as the Ipod though, but pretty close.
Battery life was ok. I don't know if my unit was fully charged when I first used it, but it lasted about 6 hours, but I had the volume cranked and wasn't going for power saving. 
If you have an Ipod video already and love it, then there is no reason to get this unless you just want something new. I didn't like the Ipod Video, so this is a good replacement.