ID: B000NDMADO-R2EYQCUISTJQFX-AKSYR1IJRLNS1
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dyson-DC21-Stowaway-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: AKSYR1IJRLNS1
ReviewerName: diego
Date: October 14, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great for pet hair.
Content:
I have five small dogs, two of which are chihuahuas, so I end up using this little machine every day.  The pros far outweigh the cons which is why it got five stars from me.  Nothing is perfect, but for the price and the size, this vacuum is wonderful.  We have hardwood floors in most of our house and this picks up everything . . . everything.  Be sure you don't have things laying around that shouldn't be sucked up because this will get them.  
Pros:
Very high suction.  It will get whatever is around it so vacuuming is prety easy which is always a plus.  Especially if you have to do it every day.  
It's size makes it great for storing.  It doesn't take up nearly as much space as some of the bigger models, but it's more powerful than nearly any vacuum I've ever used.  
It rolls well on hard floors.  It's not as great on carpet, but on our floors, it glides along perfectly and moves around furniture very easily.  
It comes with almost any attachment you could need.  I've just purchased some other attachments, but you really don't need them.  It comes with a little mini brush that's great for furniture.
Of course, like with anything, there are cons.
The cord is short.  You will have to unplug this in every room unless you live in a very small home.
The attachments, while great, don't lock in so they do come off occasionally.  
It's not as good on carpet as it is on hardwood.  But for some reason, it works really, really well on furniture.  I can't figure it out, but it's fine for us because we just don't have that much carpet.  
All in all, this is a great little machine for the price.  It does what it's supposed to and I've been using it every day for over a year and it is still working just as well now as it did the day I took it out of the box.  There are a lot of expensive vacuums in my family.  Some of them cost well over a thousand dollars and I'd put my little Dyson up against them any day of the week.