ID: B000AAWEJU-R3KRFTZU9FOUKO-A1G56KHOUOFWDW
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-Carina-Canister-Vacuum-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1G56KHOUOFWDW
ReviewerName: Dianne Foster "Di"
Date: January 7, 2006
Helpful: 88 of 90
Rating: 5.0
Title: This vacuum sucks!!
Content:
After almost 24 years, my husband and I decided to rid ourselves of the vacuum cleaners we brought to the marrriage. Last year, I bought a huge upright vacuum for heavy cleaning and went through a string of cordless sweepers for day to day operations. None of the latter suited me for heavy cleaning, and they barely functioned on a daily basis after few days of work. Having had a stroke last year I am not as capable as I once was of man-handling a 25-lb or heavier gizmo, and my 76-year old husband, owns a back that "goes out" every time the house needs vacuuming. So, finding the various sweepers insufficient and the upright too heavy, I began to search in earnest for something light-weight that would also perform.  
I love the Miele vacuum cleaner S 4000: 1/it weighs 11 lbs and I can manipulate it easily; it meets the standards set for vacuum cleaners by Canada and the EU.....environmentally friendly with a fine filtration system, so I don't spend the whole time sneezing; 3/ it is a low energy-usage instrument; 4/ the machine is so quiet, I caught my husband going out the front door while I was vacuuming, and I could hear my cell phone ring and answer it and speak with and hear the caller; 5/ the head is so flexible, it goes this way and that under bird cages and across floors and rugs (I have floor cloths and a few Persian scatter rugs). 6/ the wand snaps upright onto the canister for storage and resting while you stop.    
Best of all this vacuum sucks like a big upright (it may be better!). I have 14 parrots, a flock of canaries and three poms..talk about feathers, food, and fur..and this little light-weight machine does the trick, however, and leaves the floor clean. It's so light-weight I will use it for "everyday".