ID: B000VDQ38E-RSDH5S9LE7OZZ-AONJPKQDNJZG3
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: AONJPKQDNJZG3
ReviewerName: L. Silvers
Date: January 3, 2008
Helpful: 13 of 14
Rating: 3.0
Title: excellent for carpet; useless on floors
Content:
PROS: 
--Cannot imagine doing better on pet hair on all soft surfaces
--Extremely powerful
--Amazing on carpet
CONS: 
--deafening
--huge and heavy
--useless on bare floors
--cheap and unwieldy design
VERDICT: If you have multi-surfaced space like me, buy a less expensive, multi-surface vacuum (like the Hoover Tempo or the Eureka Optima, both of which have 12 volts of suction power like the PHE) and buy Bissell's "Pet Hair Pack" from their website--the standout pet hair tools are included along with attachments.  
In-Depth review:
The Bissell Pet Hair Eraser does indeed live up to its name--it lifts 100% of pet hair virtually out of any soft surface.  I tested this vacuum cleaner on an oriental rug, on slipcovered sofas, and on a piece of luggage frequented as a sleeping nook by my shedding cat.  When the pet contour tool is used, the unit lifts pet hair out of every crevice--both long and short pet hair.  It makes quick work of pet hair and the contour tool is easy to maneuver.  
BUT this machine is a literal monster.  It is deafeningly loud, huge, and hopelessly heavy (21 lbs).  I would ONLY buy this unit if you have a one-story fully carpeted space.  I cannot imagine lifting this unit up the stairs--it is so unwieldy and prone to tipping over, full of detachable plastic parts held in by screws, that mere use feels like a workout.  I could feel the stress on the skimpy screws each time I lifted the unit up.  
You must be VERY careful to move all potential small objects out of the way--the vacuum WILL eat them and devour them into a thousand unrecognizable pieces (it ate and dissolved part of the ac adapter to my notebook computer!!!)
Most disappointing about this vacuum was its COMPLETE and UTTER uselessness on hardwood floors.  I thought this would be great on light dust and pet hair and dust bunnies--boy was I wrong.  The vacuum didn't even pick up small dust particles that lined the floor when placed on the  "bare floor" setting.  I would run my hand across the floor and it would come up downright dirty.  Nor did it pick up nail sheddings from my cats.  It rolled over stray food kibbles, tiny feathers from my duvet comforter--the list goes on!  I borrowed my friend's cheap dirt devil and all of the above was sucked up effortlessly.  I believe the pet hair eraser's inability to deal with dirt on hard surfaces is due to its brushroll--which is FIERCE and interferes with floor suction.  I supposed I learned the hard way that for multi-surface spaces, a vacuum with multiple brushroll settings (on/off) is necessary.
Bottom line: You will be eternally happy with this unit if you have only carpet, lots of pets, and are pretty brawny.
My solution: 
I returned this unit and purchased a Eureka Optima--small, light (11 lbs!), half the price, cute, and works equally well on carpet and hard floors.  The Optima has equal suction power--12 v--although it is not cyclonic.  At just under $60, I'm perfectly happy with the Eureka--and for those of you who need pet hair cleanup power, Bissell sells a "pet hair pack" for $30 that includes the pet contour tool that made all the difference in the first place.