ID: B00009XZX0-R1FGEAZBF4ZU23-AHUE01XMA7ABZ
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-P25-S507-2-80-GHz-Hyper-Threading
ReviewerID: AHUE01XMA7ABZ
ReviewerName: cyberbob
Date: December 3, 2003
Helpful: 5 of 6
Rating: 3.0
Title: Awesome hardware, but customer support ...is lacking
Content:
I have had this laptop for two months and it is in general a fine machine. The big screen, accurate colors on the screen, DVD burner, and powerful processor make this a fantastic machine to write code/design websites/edit multimedia files on. The reason why i haven't given it a five star review is that toshiba will probably never release an updated video card driver for the geforce fx 5200 that is part of this laptop. Usually I manually install the driver update nvidia makes (as of now it is the ForceWare Rel. 50 Driver Download) to avoid lazyness of the company selling the machine/card, but since this is a wide screen machine with a rare resolution (1440 x 900), nvidia's generic driver doesn't work. After speaking with a Toshiba rep on the phone I was told that their offical policy is to not make updated drivers unless a MAJOR problem happens. This is crazy. Everyone knows that updated drivers make a huge difference in performance and quality of hardware (especially since the FX series of cards are new and I'm sure that in a year the drivers will need major updates), so it is irriatating to see toshiba make such a fine machine in general and not bother updating their drivers. Am I going to have to wait until Half Life 2 comes out (and chokes on old drivers), and everyone complains due to poor performance of the video card for Toshiba to maybe do something? Does Toshiba seriously expect me to ever buy anything they make again if this continues to be a problem??? (i'm going to say hello to alien ware, LOL) The funniest part about all this is that the stickers on this machine when you pull it out of the box advertise the geforce fx card for gaming.Also speaking of the video card, why have 32 MB of RAM on it with no offical way of upgrading (i guess i could always ask yoshi on tech tv if there is a way i can mod this thing LOL)? This alone will probably make Half Life 2 unplayable at a decent resolution whenever it comes out.If you are a Toshiba employee and you are reading this, show this to your bosses and show them that there ARE customers who actually expect their hardware to work as best as it can and if a company is too LAZY to ensure this they WILL look elsewhere when the time comes to buy a new machine (due to moore's law it will be sooner than later). I would be a toshiba fanboy for life if they just did the right thing on this issue since their hardware is of high quality. Ask your bosses why they don't want to support their hardware with new drivers. They may think that I will have to buy more hardware at a earlier time, but if I do, it definately won't be a toshiba machine.Shame on nvidia for not supporting wide screens on their generic driver too! (but since it is a generic driver i don't really expect much) Would it really kill you guys to do this?...bad  support from ATI on their Rage 128 (yes this a old school card) made me steer clear of their new cards and this incident isn't helping your standing with me right now either. You COULD pressure your OEM customers like Toshiba to do the right thing you know.Another tip: whenever you buy a laptop or LCD screen at a store, make sure that there are NO BLOWN PIXELS before you pay for it or you will be stuck with it unless there are more than 8 (i even had the service plan)! If it wasn't for the DVD Burner not working right I would've been stuck with annoying blown pixels!