ID: B000WG5EHG-R2GRPI7I8BQMI7-ANYZ6FMOC41MH
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Green
ReviewerID: ANYZ6FMOC41MH
ReviewerName: Gift Card "Tom G"
Date: November 28, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Zune, for some its life
Content:
So i have had my zune for 8 months now and so far it has been amazing. I got the zune because i hate apple. I lost my $500 library from itunes twice and I didn't want to go through that again with downloading them. With zune I can upload songs onto the zune software from my zune and it takes like 3 minutes for about 900 songs.
Sound quality: The headphones that came with my zune were so good I don't want to replace them with anything. The sound quality of the zune is incredible. Very hgih quality, and it sounds like the band is standing in front of you.
Touch Pad: It takes some time to get use to but the touch pad is so much better than the scroll wheel of a pod. You have so much more control with the touch pad. Also the pad is a lot faster than the wheel.
Durability: I was mowing the lawn one day and my zune fell out of my pocket and got ran over by the back tire of my riding lawn mover(nowhere near the blades). I am still looking for a scratch/ding/battle scar from that incodent. The screen is made of glass and dosen't scratch. mine has been abused so many times and still looks like it came right from the factory.
Screen: The screen looks a little depressing, but it saves battery life and when its 2 in the mourning it dosen't kill your eyes.
Zune software: This is the best thing i have ever used. Love the interface, love zune pass. It is so easy to use and if you have a zune pass you can stream songs straight to your computer with out having to download them. Look up the details about it and you'll see how amazing it is.
Bottom line the zune is amazing. Almost perfect, i haven't found anything really wrong with it other than i wish the battery life would last longer. But i have that want with everything that has a battery in it.