ID: B000IU0Z3O-R13YI0BPQRM2T8-A2RME4353Y911C
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Panasonic-MC-3920-Canister-5-Stage-Filtration
ReviewerID: A2RME4353Y911C
ReviewerName: Great Cook "Great Cook"
Date: December 15, 2007
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: The Suction is fantastic
Content:
I bought this little vacuum for my kitchen & dinning floors, but it does much more..
 I cannot believe this little vacuum has stronger suction then my larger vacuums..Fantastic
 
I wanted a vacuum that had a bag, that would fit into my pantry,& had great suctions, and this fits the bill.
 
 For my kitchen, I bought the cordless bagless electrolux,that was handy with out a cord, but the suctions was awful. The dirt/dust would just go right to the filter, and no suction. Plus it was a mess to empty.
 I also bought that cordless type of carpet sweeper, that worked, but then I realized it was throwing the dust up my baseboards, and another mess to empty!!
The suction is fantastic.
 Its so light weight to do the base-boards, the ceilings, you don't even know its following you.
  
 It comes with a little attachment, that I thought was useless at first!
 I now use it for my bathroom drawers, my kitchen drawers etc. Being that its small,it doesnt vacuum anything but the crumbs and all from the drawers.
  I also have a big up right dyson, and a canister hover that vacuums deep in my carpets, but there heavy, and the dyson cannot get under any furnature its so big, and the on board attachments are a pain to get out.
 I use this little one for a fast vacuum over my carpets and I was suprised it does such a good job.  
 
  This would be better if the cord was longer, but being this is so small, I don't think it can hold a longer electric cord.
  I don't think the hose will last for years, as my other vacuums do, but for the almost $60.00, I think I got more then I expected, then any other vacuum I saw at walmart etc.
 Sometimes the tubeing will come apart while vacuuming, but that is only a little unconvenance, cause it pulls apart easy to vacuum close to the kitchen baseboards, under the frig, stove.
 
 I found the bags at a small store near me, and I live in a small mountain town in California, or they said they would order them..
 Amazon sells these bags, so there should not be any problem. 
 I would buy this again for floors. Although I would not buy this to vacuum a big house. maybe a smaller apt. where the carpets or not real thick.