ID: B000BY9A3I-R34FWYVB2MKJG5-A2HZR1YZ581U72
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dirt-Devil-082700-Vision-Canister
ReviewerID: A2HZR1YZ581U72
ReviewerName: Lance R. Cady "PC FPS Gamer"
Date: August 9, 2008
Helpful: 15 of 16
Rating: 3.0
Title: Dirt Devil 082700 Vacuum
Content:
Although this vacuum has great suction, I do have some observations to make.  First, if you have stairs, I don't recommend this one.  It ends up falling down the stairs every time you move.  It's too wide to sit on the wheels, and standing up, it is top heavy, so it tips over.  The second thing is that the attachments are supposed to attach to the body and handle.  If you try to do that, they fall off, or worse, break off.  It may be a good concept, but in practice, it just doesn't work.  Thirdly, the wand does not attach to the handle, and the attachments do not attach to the handle or wand.  They just push on.  When they decide to fall apart, watch out.  When they hit your feet, it hurts!!!  Now, here is the biggie.  The fourth problem I found has to do with pet hair.  If you use the beater brush attachment, and you have dogs or cats, you will only use it once, as the hair gets tangled around the beater bar and the wheels, rendering it useless, until you take it apart and pull all the hairs out.  So you will probably end up using the other wide attachment.  The fifth problem is that this attachment swivels in all different directions, but it doesn't return to center.  Every time you hit a furniture leg, the attachment swivels.  Now it doesn't sit flat on the floor, and you have to straighten it with your hand.  If you have a temper, you will be taking this one apart, too, to fix it after you slam it on the floor a couple of times.
Again, I will say that it has great suction.  The high pitched squeal seems to be common to this type of vacuum, and if you are close to the cleaner, it probably won't bother you, but other people tend to get very irritated with it.
It is evident to me that Dirt Devil built what they thought was a great vacuum, but they didn't bother to have it tested in the real world.  Relying on their reputation, they get your money.  Will I buy another Dirt Devil product?  Not likely.