ID: B00008UI0R-R23IDALIEUL6DL-A3T2CWN2JRXC9X
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A3T2CWN2JRXC9X
ReviewerName: N. Menache
Date: April 8, 2008
Helpful: 8 of 9
Rating: 1.0
Title: Unbelievable headache
Content:
Bought this vacuum in mid-February and it's been terrible since the moment I hit "Place Order." First of all, it took two weeks to arrive--but that's the problem with using super saver shipping. I had pet hair piling up like tumbleweed while I waited for it to come by camel from Nevada to New York. Then it finally arrives, and for about ten minutes it's great, sucking incredible amounts of dirt and debris out of the carpet. I did notice that the container is miniscule, however, and that it was half full after only that short period. But before I had time to fill it the rest of the way, the brush stopped rotating. I opened it up and the belt had come off. Put it back on and resumed vacuuming, and it immediately came off again. A call to Hoover resulted in them telling me I must be using the wrong belt, even though it was the one that came on it. They sent another one by mail. When it arrived and we put it on, the exact same thing happened after five or ten minutes of Hoovering. Called Hoover and was informed that the closest service center is in the Bronx. We're in Manhattan, so why would I get in a cab and go all the way to the Bronx--and have to go back to pick it up, as well--to get their stupid faulty machine fixed? The lady had zero sympathy and told me to call Amazon. I followed her advice, but thanks to the two-week shipping and the time it took for Hoover to send the same belt it came with, I was told we'd just passed the 30-day return period.  My wife and I had no choice but to start calling around to the "local" service centers, but so far, everyone we've described the problem to has laughed and told us to return it or throw it out. Apparently, this is a huge problem with Hoover machines and is virtually impossible to repair. Another call to Hoover was essentially useless--we can ship it to them at our own cost or else we're outta luck. Thanks Amazon; thanks Hoover. Consumers, be warned: do not buy this product unless you enjoy throwing cash into the vacuum.