ID: B00067TTZO-R1HDPAETMA93X2-A19A4FWFJ683F
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Zen-Micro-Player-Silver
ReviewerID: A19A4FWFJ683F
ReviewerName: Scott F. Messinger "scottm2251"
Date: July 18, 2006
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 2.0
Title: Too fragile for a portable device
Content:
I like the features of my Zen micro. But the product is VERY fragile. I won't buy another Creative product in the future because of my bad experience with this product.
First, let me say that I bought the Zen Micro because I wanted a full-featured MP3 player, but I didn't want to pay for the "coolness" factor of the Ipod.  I liked that the Micro had a replaceable battery, and an FM radio (although the radio doesn't pull in a good signal most of the time).
But I am on my 4th replacement Zen Micro. The first time was because of the loose headphone jack problem. The second was because my 2 yr old son got hold of it and dropped it 12 inches onto a hardwood floor. The third time is because I dropped it about 2 feet onto a hard carpet floor while taking it out of my pocket. It not like I was throwing it around. It's a portable device; it's gonna get dropped! Creative should make these more sturdy!  Hopefully I can keep my 4th Micro without breaking for a while.
If you insist on buying the Zen Micro, here are my suggestions.
BE SURE YOU BUY AN EXTENDED WARRANTY FROM THE STORE when you buy this product. The BestBuy 2 year warranty was worth the 50 bucks it cost me.
Keep the player in the case provided, It's bulky, and makes it hard to keep in a pocket, but will provide a level of protection.
DON'T use the belt clip. The clip essentially slides into the case but does not latch or lock or anything. The clip comes loose VERY easily from the case and will cause you to drop your player.
To prevent the headphone jack from breaking, I rolled a strip of paper into a tube, and slipped it around the space between the jack and the case. This prevented the headphone jack from moving and breaking the solder connections. Creative may have fixed the headphone jack soldering on new models, but I'm not taking the chance.
Buyer Beware!