ID: B000050I7W-R1BTXSAH7CI6IZ-A3EBI7BWH8AXS4
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Kero-World-KW-11F-Portable-Kerosene
ReviewerID: A3EBI7BWH8AXS4
ReviewerName: Kenneth Burritt
Date: November 7, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Good Heater!
Content:
I've been using kerosene heaters for about 25 years now and really like them. I picked this unit up at a local Tru-Value because my old Kero Sun was malfunctioning. My first impression of this product is it's well put together. It looks well designed and feels solid. I prefer the square units over the round ones as the square units have removable fuel tanks and thus are more convenient to refuel. This unit also has a few nice touches like a little lip on the fuel tank handle which makes it a bit easier to remove. Another nice touch is a cover for the batteries. This is the first time I've seen this on a kerosene heater. This helps resist battery corrosion.
I've used kerosene heaters for two purposes; to lower my heating bills and to have a backup source of heat during power outages.  I use my main furnace to heat the house up to my desired temperature. I start the kerosene heater up at the same time and position it below a ceiling fan turning clockwise. Once the house is warmed up, the furnace cuts out and the kerosene heater keeps the house warm for the rest of the day. If your house is reasonably insulated, this should work for you as well. If it's really cold, like in the single digits or below, your furnace will kick on but a lot less frequently. I figure for every dollar I spend on kerosene I save three on my heating bill. I haven't had an energy bill over $200 and I have a 1700 square foot house. At this writing, kerosene is about $3.00 per gallon. Even leaving the unit on 16 hours a day, I spend about $60.00 per month on kerosene in the coldest months.
Kerosene heaters do require regular maintenance. If you don't clean the wick, you could be harmed by fumes emitted by a dirty wick causing the fuel to not completely burn. It's very simple. It's called dry burning.  Place the unit in a well ventilated place, preferably outside. Remove the tank and put the wick in the ignite position. Light the unit and let it run dry. Once the flame is out, take an old toothbrush and brush the burned carbon off the wick then thoroughly vacuum the unit. Then put a new tank of fuel in and you're done. If you perform this maintenance for every five gallons of kerosene used, which should be once a week, you'll be fine. The unit should be fully cleaned and serviced once a year by a professional or by you if you know what you're doing.
For a little effort and common sense, you will save hundreds of dollars every heating season. The unit will pay for itself in just a few months.