ID: B00008UI0R-RP5FRI00BUE7I-A2Q162YO9B0XIW
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A2Q162YO9B0XIW
ReviewerName: Mile High Mommy
Date: December 28, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: BEST VALUE EVER - far better than the Dyson I returned to get this one
Content:
I am no domestic diva!  In fact, I suck at all this domestic stuff, so for me to love a vacuum is just the craziest thing!
Originally I wanted a Dyson and finally got one, but was not impressed by one thing - the brush was not belt-driven, so it was really not rotating well consistently - it was air-powered (at that time - about 2006).  Not sure if they changed that.  I certianly let them know how disappointing that was to me - a deal-breaker, in fact.  I returned it after giving it a fair shot for about two weeks, but that darn brush was just not powerful.  Every claim they made seemed valid though, so I could understand someone liking that vacuum if the power brush is not a great concern for them.  For me, it was a high priority.
This is the first canister vacuum I've ever had and I will NEVER get an upright again.  After 20 years using uprights, I had no idea that it was possible to clean all the way under my bed!  And getting around table legs and tight spaces - dreamy!  :)  Years later, I am still so thrilled with my Hoover, I can't give it a high enough rating.  Now, to be fair, I've had only ONE problem with it - the hose got clogged this week (new dog sheds like CRAZY).  Hubby disassembled the whole darn hose, handle and all and had to take it to a vac repair guy to put it back together.  (I'm challenged with that new dog and a hubby who doesn't know his mechanical limitations, AND I STILL love this thing!)  
I have this model saved in my Amazon account because I truly never want to buy a different vacuum.  When hubby told me he thought he had ruined my vacuum, I was heart-broken, thinking it might not be available anymore.  
PROS - BEST PART is that powerful power brush!  Next best thing - awesome extendable handle!  Really - I didn't know I would ever vacuum without bending over.  I'm tall for a woman and I love that I can stand straight up while vacuuming.  My 9-year old daughter is short in comparison, and she loves making the handle as short as possible to help out mom once in a while.  She NEVER would have been able to use our old upright!  Lightweight - Convenient large carrying handle for use on three levels in our home - Super suction - Long cord - DURABLE!   
CONS - never going to want to buy another vacuum again in life.  Might have to buy a second one now just to be sure I can replace mine with the same thing later when needed.
TRULY WONDERFUL!