ID: B000NVXF30-R26IULYYTW4BTS-A2J29VKKOC4AFH
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Digital-Stabilization-14-42mm-40-150mm
ReviewerID: A2J29VKKOC4AFH
ReviewerName: David Perez
Date: January 19, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best Of Class
Content:
I have owned this camera for about two weeks.
The Olympus EVOLT E-510 camera has so many features.... I am still blown away by it's capabilities.  I researched and tested many other cameras in it's class ... and the E-510 was the clear choice for me.  I am very happy that I decided on this camera.
I have spent many hours learning and practicing how to use the many modes, settings, direct button switches, dials, menus, etc.  The more I experience the camera .... the better and easier it gets.  It soon became very easy to quicky setup or adjust the camera settings for the best results.
The camera feels very comfortable and solid in my hands.  It's a perfect size and not too heavy for my old arthritic grip. I have used the camera for up to four hours (almost continuously) and I experienced no fatigue or cramping as I did with my old Nikon F3.   The battery on this camera also seems to last forever.... however it lacks a battery level meter. 
The direct access buttons and dials are easy to reach without moving my fingers from the shutter button while framing my shots through the view finder.  I soon learned to control most of the settings without taking my eye away from the viewfinder.
If you prefer the LCD Screen over the viewfinder, "Live View" mode turns off the viewfinder in order to use the LCD Screen. Pressing the mode dial allows you to view and adjust settings along with the image in the LCD Screen .......  a nice feature.
I'll write more about my experieces with this camera as I learn more about it...... But for now I will close by saying:  "If you are contemplating the move to a DSLR camera ..... Don't hesitate to try the Olympus EVOLT E-510.   It is a real bargain with loads of features, a great instruction manual (I downloaded the full-size manual from the Olympus Website), and free photo lessons are offered online from the Olympus Team.   
Good Luck and Happy Shooting!
Dave Perez