ID: B000HE8T9I-R2H9N1EBSWESG9-A2M6D50N4FTACH
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Infinity-Upright-Vac-2d-NV30
ReviewerID: A2M6D50N4FTACH
ReviewerName: Suzanne Dallape
Date: August 8, 2007
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 1.0
Title: Never Loses Suction...Until You Use It
Content:
I wanted to try out the new bagless vacuums, and after debating whether or not to get a Dyson, I chose the Infinity instead, due to the price and the fact that it seemed pretty much the same thing.  Now I wish I had gone with the Dyson.
When I first used this vacuum, I was totally impressed.  The suction was amazing, and it was great to see all the junk collect in the chamber.  But this vacuum definitely has problems.  The logo on the vacuum says, "Never loses suction," but there should have been little letters underneath that read, "...until you've used it for five minutes." 
Now, maybe people who vacuum every day won't experience a lot of the problems I had.  I vacuum once a week, and there's a lot of stuff on the floor by that time.  So maybe I was pushing it too hard.  But if you do wait to vacuum until you have a pretty good build-up, you might be disappointed.
1. It loses suction very quickly.  I usually cannot vacuum a single room without having to empty the dust chamber at least once.  So the time you save in not having to change bags is more than used up by having to dump the cup every few minutes.
2. The bagless system is very messy.  You'd think that you could just empty the thing out over a garbage can, but I usually had to dig in there to loosen things up.  I found it just as unsanitary and dusty as disposing of a bag.
3. It requires a LOT of cleaning.  A regular vacuum requires that you change the bag every few uses and change the filter once a year.  The Infinity requires you to clean out the large dust cup with every use (often several times in one use), wash out the filters with every use, and clean out the smaller chambers and dust screen (very messy jobs) after several uses.  If you need to cover a large area, be prepared to devote at least two days to it.  Which brings me to...
4. It is unreliable in quick situations.  Don't use it right before company comes over, because you might not get a chance to finish the job.  Nearly every time I used it, the red warning light would come on midway through a large floor, and then I'd have to stop, clean out the cup and maybe change the filters, and then let it sit for 45 minutes before using it again.  
5. The wand doesn't stay in the vacuum very well.  For some reason, it isn't enough simply to listen for a "click" when inserting the wand into the unit.  You have to slam it down to make sure it stays.  If you merely rely on a click, you might find the wand pulling out of the vacuum when you pull it back.  (Or the vacuum tumbling down the stairs when you carry it by the handle!)
6. It clogs like crazy.  This was my vacuum's ultimate undoing.  The hose gets clogged every time I use it.  Generally, it is easy to unclog it by gently stretching the hose.  However, my vacuum developed a clog in the hose beneath the plastic panel, where it is impossible to get at it.  That was the end of my vacuum.  The manual simply says to "unclog the hose," but they don't tell you how to remove a clog that you cannot reach.  
I had this vacuum for eight months, fighting all the problems listed above nearly every time I used it, with the final nail being that clog.  Bottom line, if you use it VERY gently, it might be a pretty good machine, but if you have a good, dirty carpet, it might be wise to spend the extra on a Dyson, though I honestly don't know if a Dyson would make life any easier than an inexpensive bag-using vacuum.