ID: B000EPLP3C-R2JCE9UXG0RNES-A2YRJ2VNMBII3J
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A2YRJ2VNMBII3J
ReviewerName: Charles W. Hendrixson "I'm a Geek and I like it."
Date: December 17, 2007
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Much better than reported
Content:
As it comes the first generation 30gb Zune is a decent and capable media player. When you upgrade the software to the latest version it really begins to shine. Microsoft did something interesting and unusual in this throw away  consumer marketplace. They updated an older technology through software to enable features found on the newest technology.
I have been an iPod guy from the second generation ipod. I take one with me every day to listen to podcasts, books, and music on my 2 hours of commuting every day. When the Zune first came out I was interested, but was still in love with my Apple devices. when I finally broke down to buy the Zune, I did so with the usual reservations I have for any Microsoft product. 
After a month with this device I have to say that I am happy with the whole experience. The controls take a little getting used to coming from the iPod, but are in no way bad. The menu navigation is in many ways better than the iPod. For instance, you can be listening to a song and browse through the other menus without having to back out one menu at a time like on the iPod. The wireless sync works great after you set it up, with a few exceptions. You should only enable the radio when you want to sync if it isn't in a docking station. Walking around with the wireless radio enabled will result in a quick battery drain. Instead of the 14 hours of life I routinely get from a charge, it will be more like 5. The simple solution is to disable it from the menu, when you don't need it. The sharing songs between Zunes, really isn't necessary for me right now, as I am the only person in my group of geek friends that has a Zune right now, so I can't comment on that feature. I'm told that it is better, but still not perfect. It will never be able to legally share files unrestricted as it faces the same legal issues that P2P file sharing face.
In conclusion, I recommend the Zune as a capable and competent media player. The new Zune market place is a well designed and written application that makes iTunes look like a spreadsheet. When installing the software for the first time be sure to follow the directions, as this will save you time in the long run. One difference when you plug the device into your computer, is that nothing happens. With the iPod your computer will see it as another drive. Don't be alarmed when the Zune doesn't do this. This is one little drawback,as you can only use the Zune software to sync it. I use third party software with my iPods that I feel is supperior to iTunes. With the Zune, this isn't an option, but so far I like the software as is.
Now with the addition of podcast/vidcast support it is really coming into it's own. Only the lack of Audible book support keeps it a little behind. I'm sure that in the future an agreement between the parties will enable this device's support with Audible.
One other thing. As with any media player I always buy a silicone case with screen protector. This will absorb the shock if (when) it is dropped, and protect that lovely screen from scratches. BTW the new 80gb Zune uses a glass screen (not plastic)that is better with the scratches, but it's worth the extra protection for the low price of a case.