ID: B0007QKMSC-R1ML77Z7M962I6-A3EKNB6HM09LN8
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-Camera
ReviewerID: A3EKNB6HM09LN8
ReviewerName: Matt
Date: July 21, 2005
Helpful: 19 of 20
Rating: 5.0
Title: An entry level digital SLR that doesn't take entry level pictures!
Content:
Perhaps the best quality of this camera is the image quality. Simply put, it is fantastic. In fact, I would go so far as to say that the quality of pictures taken with this camera equals that of the MUCH more expensive 20D. Image quality is also superior to the Nikon D70, both in terms of noise level and resolution (8MP vs 6.1MP). So while this camera may not have the metal body, substantial feel, and features of the above two cameras, it either equals or exceeds these two cameras in terms of image quality. And is image quality not perhaps the most important quality of a camera? I should also note that the Rebel XT is cheaper than EITHER of these cameras.
Of course, this camera is not without some hitches. One is, of course, the lens. Many others have complained about this. Admittedly, it is not too bad in many situations. And perhaps I have not found all of its faults. But it has one SEVERE shortcoming I have painfully noticed - no numbers on the focusing ring. This is quite a problem if you like night photography. In such a situation, it is VERY hard to focus using the viewfinder. And an estimation of distance generally results in a better focus. Numbers would also make landscapes easier to focus on, as you often just go to infinity.
Speaking of night photography, another annoyance I have found is a few errant bright pixels in dark areas. This is a particular problem with high ISO and/or long exposure times. And the noise reduction does little to nothing to deal with this. However, I do not know that another digital camera would do better in this area. These sorts of artifacts could very well represent a shortcoming of digital technology (vs film) which has not yet been overcome.
Another issue is size. This camera is quite small. But this can be a good or bad thing. On one hand, it can make the camera more difficult to hold. But on the other hand, it makes it light and easy to carry with you. I guess it all boils down to what you are comfortable with.
The bottom line: despite any shortcomings, a GREAT choice for your first digital SLR. It's inexpensive. And it takes pictures that WON'T leave you wishing you had spent more.