ID: B000G1CY02-RSQEQ0FKRSSRK-A3EB07DS19UGCR
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-HHP1500-Safeheat-Mica-Panel-Heater
ReviewerID: A3EB07DS19UGCR
ReviewerName: P. Zeissig "pzeissig"
Date: October 25, 2006
Helpful: 426 of 427
Rating: 4.0
Title: Nice convenient design, heats well and quickly, but could be better
Content:
We purchased this from Amazon.com for our 6 month old baby's room so we don't have to heat the rest of the house just to get his room warm.  I compared this to oil heaters and found this to be better since it is also quiet (no fans) and fairly safe.  
I was surprised on how light weight and small it is compared to the pictures on the web.  The dimensions are: 26"wide, 20" high (23" high on wheels), 2.25" depth (10" deep when on wheels).  It is easy to carry because it only weighs about 5 to 8 pounds (I didn't weigh it).
The heating elements heats up very fast, so that is a definite advantage over oil heaters.  It can be mounted on the wall with the included wall mount bracket.  Once my baby starts walking I will mount it on the wall to keep it out of reach for him, since the front of the unit does get very hot (although you will not burn yourself if you happen to touch it for a second).  So you can hang it up like a picture.  The heat only radiates from the front of the unit.  The front is smooth in comparison to a oil heater, so your child will suffer less injury than the sharp radiators on oil heaters if he/she runs into it with the head.
It heats a small bedroom quickly, so I think it will also heat a medium sized room with low celings well, but probably not a large living room or kitchen/dining-room.
PROS:
1. Lightweight low profile design can be wall mounted
2. Quick heating
3. Totally quiet
4. High power heating
CONS:
1. Odor: During the first day of use after new it off-gases a lot and generates a strong odor.  So make sure to turn it on high heat in the garage or somewhere away for several hours before installing it in a closed room.
2. No digital thermostat: I would prefer a digital thermostat where you can set a temperature.  With this one you have to wait until the room is at the right temperature and then set it.  This is not exact and takes several tries to get it right.
3. The front of the unit heats up more than I expected, so make sure kids stay away from it.