ID: B000AQSMPO-R4RUR9SZMHVKP-AHH68040JB412
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-B60-Special-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing
ReviewerID: AHH68040JB412
ReviewerName: M. E. OMEALEY "momealey"
Date: March 16, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 3.0
Title: Quality control issue
Content:
I just bought a Special Edition at Target one hour ago. I unpacked it and followed the "Getting started guide" to run a small cup of water through the machine with no coffee. Following this, I brewed my first cup with one of the included k-cups. I selected the medium cup setting and although the output was a little less than I expected, it was tasty. I removed the k-cup and closed the lid planning to run just water through the machine to measure the output, but the machine shut off by itself after chugging and displaying "Not Ready" in the display for several minutes. I turned the machine back on and again was greeted by the chugging noise and the "Not Ready" words in the display. Once again, after several minutes instead of "Ready to Brew" the machine just shut off. After unplugging and plugging the machine back in and trying a couple of more times without success, I called the Customer Service line. 
The guy who answered took all my information and had me go through the steps again while on the line, with the same results. After apologizing, the rep offered to send me a replacement machine; however, when I asked how long this would take since I would be without a coffee maker in the interim, I was informed that it would take 3 - 7 business days. I told him that this was totally unacceptable and would be returning the machine to Target.
The only reason I called customer service in the first place is because this was the only Special Edition my local Target had on the shelf and I knew that I would not be able to get a replacement at the store. Had Keurig been willing to overnight a replacement for their defective product, I may have been willing to give it another chance, but I'm not willing to spend this kind of money on a defective product and then have to wait a week or more without coffee for them to use the cheapest shipping method available to them.
Unfortunately, I should have taken the negative reviews more seriously. I cannot recommend this machine since the quality control is apparently lacking.
3/17/10 UPDATE: I was able to exchange the defective machine for a working model at Target. Turns out they had a few more in the back of the store. I've been putting the machine through it's paces and trying the various sample k cups that came with it. I have to admit that with a working machine, it makes a great cup of coffee. I now have several variety packs on order. My wife tried to make a cup of tea and decided that it was not hot enough for her even though I am using the 192 degree temperature setting. She stated that she will forgo the convenience to boil water the old fashion way, in a pot on the stove, rather than use this machine. One of my sons, the one who is also a coffee drinker, loves the thing though. 
I have 16 oz. travel mugs for the commute to work, so it takes two k cups on the 8 oz. setting to fill it. I haven't been willing to try the 10 oz. setting with a single k cup as this wouldn't fill the travel mug anyway and I'm afraid it would be too watered down. It's still faster to run two cycles back to back than my old coffee maker. I also picked up a My K Cup reusable filter with the intent of using it with my regular ground coffee most of the time and just keeping some k cups around for special occasions, but I've read some horror stories about the My K Cup as well. You can't beat the convenience of the prepackaged k cups and after tasting some of the gourmet coffees that came in the sample pack, it's going to be hard to go back to Folger's. Needless to say, I haven't tried the My K Cup out yet.
My original 1 star rating was entirely due to the frustration of having such an expensive purchase malfunction within the first hour. I've upgraded my rating to reflect the fact that the working model preforms as advertised. I'm hesitant to give it too high a score considering the number of other people that have had problems and the fact that I've only had it for two days now. I'll try to update again in a few months after the newness/novelty has worn off.
I would recommend this machine to people who like the idea of brewing each cup of coffee individually, like to drink a variety of blends, and prefer the convenience of using the k cups. Just be aware that if you have a problem, while customer service might be willing to replace your machine, it won't be quick, so have a back up coffee maker just in case.