ID: B0009OR97E-R1OMZKKQ4Q2WK8-ACSR85S28SXRN
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Metropolitan-Professionals-ADM-4PNHSF-4-Horsepower-Vacuum
ReviewerID: ACSR85S28SXRN
ReviewerName: Gamul "Gamul1"
Date: October 16, 2009
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 1.0
Title: Not a good vacuum, lacks modern features, sucks - in the wrong way
Content:
I bought this vacuum for a few reasons:
1) All the brand name vacuums listed on consumer reports have user reviews that said the vacuums were not that good
2) the user reviews for this vacuum were much higher, albeit fewer people, but I looked at both models too.
3) The reviews of this vacuum made it sound like it was amazing
I am truly wondering if the previous reviewers all worked for the company.
While I will say this IS a good vacuum, it does not live up to the hype and quite frankly lacks some key modern features or has some poor quality aspects
1) The cord just hangs out there with no place to go.  You can wrap it around the body but that is a pain in the @$$.
2) The spare attachments hang onto a flimsy plastic carrier that poorly snaps onto the vacuum tube/pole
3) the long pole attachment (not the set that goes to the power nozzle but the other long one for the non powered attachments) does not clip.  As you are vacuuming the pole will frequently fall off onto the floor. 
4) The documentation / instructions for this vacuum are very poor at best.  All you basically get is a poor quality single sheet of paper with very vague instructions.  When you unwrap the vacuum, you have 4 poles and it takes a while to figure out why 4 (2 for the power nozzle and 2 for non power). No help from the directions. All it says is to attach the poles.  You also are left wondering about the bag and filter insertion. there is absolutely nothing about proper installation.
5) You have two power buttons.  One on the main body of the vacuum and one for the power nozzle.  When using the power nozzle this design makes no sense at all.  You have to turn the body power on, and then you have to turn the power nozzle power on. When you shut the power nozzle off, the vacuum is still running and still needs to be shut off.  The button on the body is a toggle switch. Low to the left, Off in the middle, and High to the right. It takes some getting used to when trying to switch it off to not go completely from low-high (or high-low) instead of stopping in the middle.  
The vacuum has very good suction, but it certainly won't suck the chrome off a trailer hitch. :-)
minus 1 star for horrible documentation
minus 1 star for dumb power controls
minus 1 star for nothing modern on the features/attachments
I almost wanted to give another minus 1 star for not living up to the hype.
I am not totally disappointed with the vacuum. It basically works fine. And I am not sure how happy I would be with the brand name vacuums with so many real people rating them low. I might still buy this vacuum if I did it again. But my expectations would be much lower.
UPDATE 12/27/2009: OK - its been 3 months and I would change the stars to 0.  My wife says she clearly hates this vacuum and I have to agree it is a pain in the @$$ to use.  It works as a vacuum just fine - but how you use it is such a pain it makes the thought of going around and picking up each piece of dirt by hand sound more attractive. Clearly previous reviewers had to be employees of the company and were forced to leave positive comments.