ID: B000N22JX6-RO928UVTPGG6G-A1MQ4GUD7Q1YYR
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Lasko-6435-Designer-Ceramic-Oscillating
ReviewerID: A1MQ4GUD7Q1YYR
ReviewerName: P. Skow
Date: January 23, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 3.0
Title: No thermostat on LOW, otherwise very nice.
Content:
only 3 stars, because of this design flaw issue:
I like it, and it's not blowing my circuit breaker when it's in the HIGH setting, in the room I need it in, so I'm not going to return it.
Others may not be so lucky due to an inexplicable design decision: 
I really HATE that when you turn it to LOW setting, you CANNOT USE THE THERMOSTAT!!! 
As soon as you select a thermostat "temperature", it automatically switches from LOW to HIGH power, and could then trip a typically overloaded circuit breaker.
If you MUST use the low setting because of your homes wiring, your only choice to keep it from running continuously, is to use the TIMER feature.(minimum 1 hour)
I've had many heaters, and NONE with a thermostat behaves this way in low setting!! 
(Including the same brand cheaper LASKO 754200 ceramic heater that I also bought.) Inexplicable.
I've got some areas of the house that I'll blow the circuit breaker if I use the HIGH setting.
- (14AWG wiring, with 15A breakers, and some are pretty heavily loaded already. The kind of "cheap" barely acceptable wiring many new houses have in them.)
I won't buy an electic heater unless it has both a high(1500 watts) and low(usually ~750W, but this one says 900W) setting, plus a thermostat to keep it from running constantly.  
If you are buying this heater and MUST use it in the LOW setting in some areas, then you'll want to buy something else.
On the PLUS side, the designers got a lot right: 
1. (my Wife likes it) looks good in a living room (smaller than I had pictured, - that's a good thing).
2. AIRFLOW: Very quiet. It has a vertical "Squirrel cage" type blower. One fan speed. 
 (No "Blower only" mode.)
The description tries to make it sound like it's got a powerful blower- no, I wouldn't call it that. 
 - but it does have better airflow than I've seen in many other ceramic style heaters with regular fan. 
Note: does NOT have an air-filter to keep dust out of the blower or heat elements. 
The air intake is in back, and air is then sucked into top and bottom of squirrel cage fan. The air entry is at least 6" above floor, so that somewhat reduces dust intake. 
(any heater with no filter usually means taking them apart every couple years to clear out the dust buildup, or see reduced airflow/performance, and earlier failure. It's rare to find a heater with filter.)
3. HEAT: Standard maximum 1500 Watts=5118 BTU/hr.. Plenty to warm us up 5 feet away, and to warm a small room, especially as a supplemental heater. 
I'm using it in large open room with very high ceiling, but I can certainly tell it's warmer when I walk back there from colder adjacent front entry area.  We're using it more for area heating within the room, while sitting watching TV.
4. Looks like ~40 degree arc swivel, which is enough to get both sides of a person, and to help circulate air in room. (first one I've had with swivel, so don't know how that compares with other brands)
5. TIMER: settable from 1 to 7 hour, in one hour increments. 
We use the timer(LOW or high) along with the thermostat(HI only!!), since we'd keep forgetting to turn it off when done in the room (it's quiet, to my ears anyway). 
6. Controls: The buttons on top mean I don't have to bend so low if I don't have the remote control in my hand, and the settings are easy to see.
On the other hand, that also makes it harder to tell (when sitting down) what setting is chosen when using the remote control.  (The Infrared remote control has no indicators showing current setting)
The remote controls: ON/OFF; Hi/Lo temp; Swivel on/off; temp setting: one press for each temp change cycles through 60 deg to 85deg, in 5 deg increments(HIGH temp ONLY!!); TIMER: each press cycles from 1 to 7 hour, in 1 hour increment, with top display of "4,2,1", so you must add the numbers to figure the total time)  
It has a ~6Ft power cord with two prong polarized plug.