ID: B000HVY2Q0-R3RJBSNPTPFV5L-A1Z4B0S6O1OO4R
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Soleus-Air-HM1-10-32-Micathermic-Heater
ReviewerID: A1Z4B0S6O1OO4R
ReviewerName: 5port
Date: January 6, 2007
Helpful: 49 of 50
Rating: 5.0
Title: Hi -tech heater
Content:
My Soleus HM1-10-32 is used to supplement my oil heat since prices have gone up. I have no problem heating a 18' x 12' living room. I wanted the non-remote version because I've got too many remotes and dont need another one. To my surprise this regular model is now coming with ECO (economy mode). 
  The heating element consists of two 500W vertical heat panels:
1) LOW:  In this mode only one heat panel turns on (the right panel).
2) High: In this mode both (right and left) heat panels turn on.
3)ECO: In this mode both 500W heat panels turn on until the room reaches a certain temp then the right heat panel turns off and the left one remains on until the thermostat takes over and cycles one 500W panel.
  Noise: The 500W heat panels will warp at little as they warm-up. This warping makes a low clunk sound. Not loud enough to disturb you but noticable. Also the thermostat makes a click as it cycles.
Power: 1000W seems to be enough for me and doesnt cause heating of the line cord. At this power level the unit can share another device on the same line if need be. The 500W setting works well for most of my conditions. For instance I get home from work and the burner has kept the house at 63 degrees F. I turn-on the heater at 1000W until the living room wall thermostat reads 69 F then I turn the heater to low and let it cycle. 
Heat: Since it has a back or rear to the element I tried it up against a wall. This heated the wall up real well. After moving it out in the open it seemed much more effective. The heater emits a LOT of heat out of the top and heats only about out to three feet from the front. I also heats out to 1.5 feet to the rear. Other than that its mostly Infra-red waves to the front and rear and ambient heat to the top. 
   Very handy carry handle on one side and attractive thin profile make this a real versatile low profile heater. With the Micathermic elements the heating elements are not exposed to the air so it is safe. 
  I really think this is the future in portable heating because it is the quietest heater I have used. Also with heat out of the top,infra red to the front and heat to the rear its very effective. 
Edit: 2/6/07
   Well we had our first single digit night here in NY and it kept the bedroom at 68F by using 1000W and letting it cycle all night. Thats 68F with my door open and attic air leaking thru the attic stairs (in otherwords worst case) at 8 deg outside temp. Normally on an 8 deg night my bedroom is 59F.
   I also knocked it completely over while walking around in the dark. The Power was off and it lived no problem. No damage works fine. 
  Another point is that no matter how close it is to objects in the bedroom they do not heat to a dangerous temp. They will get warm but not hot.
   When sitting on the coach with it 3 feet away and facing you (maximum comfy) you only feel a mild radiant heat not a blast in the face. Try that with most radiant heaters and you'll get a tan.
  Lovin' it.