ID: B00097DFKQ-R2B1K7W3HEYKDV-ALROGUYPL2KBB
Category: AirConditioners
Product: WA-1230H-000-BTU-Portable-Conditioner-Remote-Control
ReviewerID: ALROGUYPL2KBB
ReviewerName: M. Lake
Date: September 9, 2005
Helpful: 
Rating: 1.0
Title: If reliability isn't important to you...
Content:
I placed an order to purchase a Sunpentown portable air conditioner and went to their facility in City of Industry, California to pick it up.  When I arrived, another gentlemen was there to pick up his WA-1230H that was in for repair.  This got me concerned about the purchase I was about to make so I asked him some questions about it.  It turns out that this was *** THE THIRD TIME *** he had brought his AC in for repairs.  After the second time his unit broke down, Sunpentown provided him with a new one (which was the one he was picking up from being repaired that day).  He told me that the first time his AC broke was within 3 days of purchasing it.  2 separate units breaking down a total of 3 times = YIKES!
Needless to say I began feeling very uncomfortable about throwing down almost $500 on an AC (WA-1220H) that I was no longer confident in.  I asked one of the employees about the reliability of the air conditioner I was about to receive and he said it was "good."  "So it's not great or excellent?" I questioned.  He laughed nervously and then went on to explain that the reliability depended on how the unit was treated (during transport, whether you had pets and cleaned out the filters regularly, etc.).  He didn't give off much of a confident vibe while he talked about the product.  That, combined with seeing the poor guy picking up his AC after the third repair, provoked me to cancel my order and walk out the door.  My gut feeling was that I would be very disappointed with this purchase and that I would have been kicking myself for not paying heed to the warning signs.
I've decided to not purchase a portable AC.  Instead, I'm opting to look for a set up that's more reliable.  It will be more of a hassle installing, but I will at least be able to enjoy the AC without worrying that it will break down.