ID: B00006LHO7-R2WX55YNUBUFQP-
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Labs-Jukebox-Player-Firewire
ReviewerID: 
ReviewerName: 
Date: May 27, 2003
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great toy for music lovers everywhere!
Content:
First, let me start by saying that I am NOT a computer person and I still got this thing to work.  I love this machine because I can take all my music everywhere with me. Not more fumbling with a zillion tapes in my car or airplane.  No more deciding which CD's I'm going to listen to at work.  I have everything in one place.  As long as all songs are accurately labeled, finding songs/artists/genres/albums is fairly simple.  The playlist option is a great feature as well.  When you set up the software, you have your choice of several different bit rates.  I chose 192 kbps and I currently have around 2000 songs, which uses about half the available memory. I have never tried any other mp3 jukebox, so I can't compare, but I am very happy with this one.  Also, I have not attempted to download other things like files other than mp3's (.xls, .doc, .ppt, etc) so I can not comment on these capabilities.  Even with my complaints (see below), I am satisfied with my purchase.Moving on to things I don't like about it from most irritating to least- 1) If you have Windows XP, the Nomad Zen software is not completely compatible with it.  Apparently this glitch has something to do with why the CD details (artist name, album & song title) don't come up automatically, according to tech support.  One of my company's IT people said that there was a way to rip songs through another Windows program that will access the CD details and then transfer them from my computer's hard drive to the Nomad, but not being a computer person, I can't figure this out so I had to type in 2000 song titles.  That [is bad] so I deducted points.  If you are a computer person, this may not apply to you.2)The instructions are terrible.  For someone who is not completely comfortable with computers, setting up the transfer program, and accessing the player are a challenge to learn if you're going by the enclosed pamphlet.  This is rated #2 on the irritating scale because once you figure it out it's pretty simple; just setting it up and learning it was a drag.  Again, if you are a computer person, this may not apply to you.3)  There is a headphone output, but no "line out" output so I can't hook it up to my existing stereo system.4)  It's kind of heavy compared to a cd or tape walkman.All things considered, it's a great little device and I would recommend it to music lovers everywhere, however if you are not good with computers or if your typing skills [are bad], you may want to consider other options.