ID: B0000C8VU8-RVVB659EZRCMJ-AXLQP6J93X2NQ
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-6-3MP-Digital-Rebel-Camera
ReviewerID: AXLQP6J93X2NQ
ReviewerName: Daniel Wild
Date: November 20, 2006
Helpful: 15 of 15
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great value, great results
Content:
I purchased my 300D in May 2005, when the XT was released and this 6.3 MP model's price began falling. I'd have to really pick this camera apart to tell you the downsides of it; disregard reviews by those who think this camera is not up to par -- of course it's not comparable to the EOS 1-Series or a 5D, so don't expect the same features or capabilities. The right user, however, can get similar results.
That said, unless you are a professional photographer, I cannot imagine how the Digital Rebel could be inadequate for any amateur or semi-pro shooter. It's speed and megapixels have since been passed by, but it's still, especially now, a great buy.
The kit lens will perform for you just fine, although most of my shots with the kit lens are at 18mm, landscape or just wide-angle shots. The flash works very well in most situations, even in extremely dark rooms. One guy complained his AF hunted in low light situations, even with flash...of course, what do you expect in a dark room? Use manual focus and grow up.
Quality is great from ISO 100-400, although 800 can be somewhat ugly at times, and 1600 is basically unusable, especially if you're not shooting at f/2.8 or bigger.
My main complaints: slow start-up time compared to the newer models (XT, 20D, etc) ... camera seems to be out of breath after continuous shooting; take 8 shots quickly and you may notice the camera needs to process info before it can shoot again. 2.5 frames/second is not very fast if you're shooting any sports.
Overall, this camera has been incredibly reliable for me; it's gotten me front page shots on newspapers, magazine covers, calendars and websites. I used it so much that I blew out the shutter in 10 months; Canon fixed it at no charge and it works fine since. One minor problem: very rarely, it won't turn on unless I remove the battery and re-insert it.
I've found the battery life to be fantastic. I can use it all day, even with flash, and still have some life at the end of the day. A backup battery in your bag should give you more than enough insurance for a day.
I've printed at 11x17 with excellent results.
With some practice, it's very easy to navigate. Menus and options are simple; changing the ISO or aperture is very easy despite what some have complained about. It's very reliable in fully-auto mode as well, especially if you're shooting with flash. A memory card reader is a must when uploading images.
Overall: it's old news in the world of digital SLRs, but right now, a new or used model at such a good price is really is great value.