ID: B00008OT2G-R3MBQ4X44TC5DP-A2CP2VFCYWFHCY
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-EOS-10D-6-3MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A2CP2VFCYWFHCY
ReviewerName: captain04 "captain04"
Date: June 9, 2004
Helpful: 29 of 29
Rating: 5.0
Title: Mega happy
Content:
I've had my 10D for just over six months, taking mainly landscape/wildlife photos during that time.  I moved up from a Minolta film SLR and chose the 10D in preference to Nikon due to my experiences with the Powershot S400 (compatability of menu systems, software etc) and in preference to the Digital Rebel due to build quality/feel and the slightly faster FPS and improved buffer (important to me when trying to photograph animals).  I have a big trip to Alaska coming up where the camera will pay for itself with the savings in film/developing alone, never mind the instant feedback and convenience of not having to sort through 250 rolls of film when I get back.Overall experience with the 10D is very positive with minimal/no shutter lag, great autofocus speed, and the SLR type features often missing such as depth of field preview, mirror lock up etc.  If I have any issue with the camera it is the boot up time which seems like an age compared to simply turning on a film camera but isn't too unreasonable compared to other digital SLRs (the brand new Nikon being one of the few exceptions-at a price, mind).Other reviewers here and on other sites have commented on the soft focussing.  Never had an issue with it but I'm not shooting portraits of people but rather I'm normally using large depth of field.Picture quality has been consistently excellent.  Without trying to mess around with the white balance etc I find the color to be spot on and exposure is consistently where I expect it to be.  The additional exposure latitude of digital over slide film really helps on difficult to catch contrasty outdoor scenes and the 10D does a great job of making the most of it (comparing it to point and shoot digital images really brings out the differences).  I've printed numerous prints at 13&quot;x19&quot; on a Canon i9100 inkjet at home that are outstanding and exceed the quality that pro lab printed slides/negatives have achieved.Unfortunately, I managed to get the dreaded &quot;Error 99&quot; message a few weeks ago.  I use two new Canon lenses (28-135IS and 100-400IS) and a Sigma 12-24.  Seeing other comments about non-Canon lenses causing the problem, I called Sigma who confirmed the 12-24 is software compliant and shouldn't be the issue.  I called the Canon service hotline and after 20 seconds was actually speaking to a live body (amazing in this day and age).  The technician ran through all the things that could be tried to fix it and confirmed that the camera needed to be sent in for repair.  I mailed it on a Tuesday and received the camera back the following Wednesday (with the Memorial Day weekend in between) fully functioning, with a new shutter, updated software, and fully cleaned and running to factory specs.  Outstanding service response and an experience to put a smile on my face.  Highly recommended accessories to get for the 10D: 1) a second battery (good power usage but I take way more shots than I used to on film and it's not good to run out while in the middle of nowhere); 2) some form of cover for the LCD screen (hoodman peel-on/off work great and help protect it from scratches).