ID: B000I058P4-RTVJ8ALKNXCGF-A3NQW3IBCQOESZ
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-DE790B-Coffeemaker-stainless
ReviewerID: A3NQW3IBCQOESZ
ReviewerName: M. Young
Date: May 2, 2008
Helpful: 30 of 31
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Buy for the money
Content:
I think this is a great buy.  I live alone.  For me, the 4 cup machines were just too small and the 12 cup were too big.  I also did not want a machine with a hot plate since they burn the coffee and make it taste bitter.  I was happy with the $10 B&D single cup machine which I kept at my desk at work. This was the cheapest Carafe machine I could find ($29.99 at Target).
I am a bit of a coffee geek.  I home roast my own coffee beans.  Grind my beans right before I brew my coffee.  I have not checked it with a thermometer, but this brews at a close to ideal temperature.   I am using about 7-8 grams per cup and find it makes a good strong cup of coffee.  The brew cycle is on the slow side, but for me that is good. The slower brew makes for a better extraction.   I use a mesh basket and have not had a major problem with the grinds overflowing into the coffee.  This has been a big issue with other machines I have owned.  But by keeping the water coming at a decent speed, it seems OK with this machine.
The carafe does a fair job at keeping the coffee hot.  After 4-5 hours and three mugs, the coffee is still at a good hot drinkable temperature.  The outside of the carafe stays cool to the touch.  Yes a hot plate machine would keep it hotter, but after an hour or two, the coffee would be burnt.
I will offer one tip for hotter coffee.  Either rinse or or let the carafe sit for a few minutes with hot top tap water right before brewing.  This will preheat the carafe a bit and make a few degrees difference in your coffee.  
I know there are a lot of negative reviews on this I will try to address some of the points.
The Machine Flooded my Counter: 
This is not the machines fault.  You did not have the carafe properly seated in the machine.  This can be a problem with any machine where you stop brewing to serve a cup.  Cuisinart machines are even worse at this.  But if you make sure the carafe is seated correctly, you will not have a problem.  Also if you fill it above the 8 cup level, the carafe will overflow.
Hot Plate did not work:  
Thermal Carafe machines generally do not have hotplates.  Plus hot plates generally have auto shut off now.  So after a couple of hours, your coffee will in addition to taste burnt, will cool quickly.  This machine  keeps your coffee for 4-6 hours without tasting burnt.
Coffee tastes bitter or metallic:  
Make sure to rinse after each use. Try cleaning it with sudsy water and the occasional soak with white vinegar and water.
Timer is tough to use:  
Read the owners manual.  It is not rocket science.  It is like programing a digital alarm clock.
Yes there can be bad machines that do not brew at the right temp.  But most of the bad reviews for this product are the result of user error and not due to a design defect.
For the money, this is a great buy in a thermal carafe drip Machine.  There are no major flaws.  It looks good on the counter, and keeps the coffee hot for a few hours.  For $30-$40 I think this machine is a steal!!!