ID: B000IHN8AO-R3HALARWLITT36-A15TDT8A3CH11K
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-10-2MP-Digital-Camera-Reduction
ReviewerID: A15TDT8A3CH11K
ReviewerName: D. Kim "kimdani1"
Date: January 2, 2008
Helpful: 53 of 64
Rating: 3.0
Title: Some issues prevent this from being THE camera to beat
Content:
I've personally owned the following digital SLR cameras:
Original Canon Digital Rebel, Nikon D70, Canon 20D, Pentax K10D, and now the Nikon D300
Out of all the DSLR's on that list, the only one I ever returned was the Pentax K10D.  Prior to purchasing it, I read every review I could find and felt that I was making a well informed decision.  None of the local shops carried the Pentax K10D, so I had to order it online, sight unseen.  On paper, the camera was definitely impressive with weather-sealing, sensor dust reduction, sensor anti-shake, etc.  However, once I received the camera, I found myself becoming frustrated with some of the issues.
First off, the JPG images from the camera were definitely softer (lacking sharpness) as compared to any other DSLR that I had ever owned.  This was later confirmed in tests that are viewable on www.dpreview.com  Although conversion of the RAW files into JPG corrects this issue, I have neither the time nor patience to post process every photo that I take.  I prefer JPG images that are printable right out of the camera without the need for image manipulation.  (I shoot both JPG + RAW and use the RAW as a digital negative)
To make matters worse, the issue of JPG sharpness is not resolved with increasing the sharpness level in camera.  Worsening my impression of the camera was poor white balance performance.  Indoors, too many of the photos had a sickly yellow cast which required reprocessing of the RAW files or shooting with manual white balance to counteract.  Lastly, the camera's metering system was all over the place.  With the main subject in the center of the screen, if I took three pictures in a row without moving an inch, one photo would be overexposed and another would be underexposed.  I quadruple checked to make sure that exposure bracketing was off, but this issue would pop up at random.
I'll be the first to admit that the camera I received (it was definitely brand new) might have been defective.  However, given all the issues I was having, I decided to return the camera and resumed using my Canon 20D.  The faster speed of the Canon (5fps) as well as the better autofocus (hunts less in low light) and better high ISO performance were all factors that returned me to using the Canon.  I truly wanted to like the Pentax K10D, but was ultimately unable to make it work for me.
Given the number of positive raving reviews here, I'd say that just about everyone who owns one likes it.  However, from my own personal experience, I'd say this camera was less than the sum of its parts.  The price is indeed tempting considering how low it is compared to similar offerings from Canon/Nikon/Sony/Olympus, but I'd recommend trying this camera out in person before plunking down your hard earned cash.  Also, be sure to take a SD card along with you so you can save some images onto the card to review later.  If you like what you see, then by all means buy the camera and be happy.