ID: B000IHN8AO-R3M5NPCISPKLR0-A322KL8K9U1WV8
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-10-2MP-Digital-Camera-Reduction
ReviewerID: A322KL8K9U1WV8
ReviewerName: Jerry Block
Date: February 5, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: My upgrade from the Pentax *ist D
Content:
I knew that I had to have this camera as soon as I saw the words "Image Stabilization". I have been shooting with Pentax camera's and lenses and upgrading them since I started shooting with a K1000 in 1980. Over time, I have accumulated and upgraded camera's and lenses (now to some of the auto-focus lenses), and all of them  can be used (including bellows and teleconverter) with the K10 D. I often shoot in low light hand held (because I can't bring in my tripod) and I think that the " IS" is going to be a benefit when shooting under these conditions. I also work with a 100mm-500mm telephoto lens and in experimenting with it, I was able to photograph (hand held & clearly read), at a lower shutter speed, a license plate on a car about 125 ft away.
As I have been going to larger prints, the RAW & RAW + jpeg formats (on the fly) will give me the ability to make better images of the important shots that I want to create without using up memory on images that are not as important.
All of the new shooting modes (in addition to the Av & Tv modes) may be overkill. Sometimes I think that it is easier to use the M setting. I can see that if you are shooting a lot of images in succession of action or a lot of depth of field control, it might be appropriate for some users to use these camera settings.  
The optional battery grip BG2 is an important option for serious photographers to consider. It just makes using a camera in the portrait mode a lot more convenient. I have not yet totally  figured ot how I plan to use my external handle mount flash with it yet, but I know there are some brackets out there that I think I can make work. (I don't use a lot of flash in my work anyway).
I am looking forward to getting into using this camera to create new and interesting images. I am writing this review probably prematurely given that I have not yet had the chance to use it more.