ID: B000GLHVZA-R9UCA2CJSE19U-A3V64BPT8GYUY3
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Vornado-EH1-0034-06-Vortex-Full-Room-Electric
ReviewerID: A3V64BPT8GYUY3
ReviewerName: Brad Benedict
Date: January 11, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Works like it's supposed to.
Content:
My girlfriend bought me one of these for Christmas.  We use it to warm up our bedroom before going to sleep and before waking up.  We also use it to warm up our bathroom on really cold days.  We only have a gas wall heater in our living room which is far away from the bedroom and takes too much time and gas to heat up all the rooms properly.  And by the time they are warm, the living room is burning hot.  The Vornado comes in perfect in this situation.  I do not have to pay to heat the whole house when I'm only in one room.  I have it plugged into a timer in the bedroom (12x12x8) for 30 minutes before I'm ready to go to bed.  That amount of time seems to be ample to bring it up from the 50F or so that room can drop down to to the 68F or so that I feel is comfortable.  If it is warmer than 50F to start with, it does not end up being a major waste of energy, as I have noted with a Kill-A-Watt that once it reaches the desired temperature, it will drop down it's energy usage to somewhere around 40 watts.  Then to bring it's temperature back up it will only use about 700 watts even if it's on high.  I usually only leave this running for about 2 hours a night, but with it plugged into my Kill-A-Watt I let it run all night the first night and figured it would only cost me $0.28 to run it all night (at $0.08 / kwh) as opposed to the $1 / night it was costing me to run my gas heater (1 therm at $1 / therm).  
Some people seem to be complaining that this thing does not heat up fast enough.  True, it does not produce a really intense heat around it in a few minutes like a traditional space heater.  It does however create a nice even temperature throughout the room, which is what I prefer.  I have it set down on my floor and close the door.  If you leave the door open, you will be trying to heat the entire are that the door opens up to, as cold air will push it's way in.  This will be much less effective, but it does still work.  Having it low on the floor will help warm up the cool air that is down low.  
As for them breaking down early, only time will tell me.  If that is true, then all my energy savings will most likely be negated.  Otherwise I will suggest them to friends and most likely even purchase another one.