ID: B0007QKN22-R3S3I70PZS8LJ0-A3IWCSVCLZXKZ2
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-f3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A3IWCSVCLZXKZ2
ReviewerName: Random Techie
Date: March 15, 2005
Helpful: 27 of 32
Rating: 5.0
Title: My first SLR - a review of a different color
Content:
I researched this camera and lenses online, and chose it for my first SLR. I have previously have a Nikon 900 and a Nikon 990, both used for web-product photography, currently I have a Nikon 8700.
When I went in to buy the XT Rebel, they sold me a filter kit and said "with these you'll never need PhotoShop." That was amusing, since I'm not a photog (I'm a computer person) and I love PhotoShop. According to my online research, the filters can double as a lens protector, so I got them in case I ever felt the need to reach for them. This review is not a performance review of the XT Rebel because I don't know how to use the camera well enough to exercise all its features.
What I do wish to convey are the differences between a Nikon 8700 type camera, "P&S" (point and shoot), versus my first SLR camera, this Canon XT Rebel. It took me a long time to realize that these constitute two entirely different kinds of cameras.
Autofocus: this SLR has an autofocus capability on steroids. My Nikon takes great photos, on a tripod or if I'm sitting. But should I try something as simple as pointing it at one of the small furry creatures living here too, it generally won't (auto-) focus. And you can't focus it otherwise, really, because you can't tell through the viewfinder or LCD whether it's truly focused, as compared to viewing it on your computer. FINALLY with the XT Rebel I can point it, hold down the snapshot button halfway, and get an instant autofocus. It's like The Terminator locking in on whatever you're pointing at. I am so happy.
A minor difference is that the LCD monitor on the XT Rebel cannot be used as a viewfinder for shooting, you MUST look through the viewfinder. That means smooshing your face up against the back of the camera. I think they sell little viewfinder hoodies to alleviate that.
Memory: this type of camera allows many shots in quick succession, which I have no plans on using. But this is one of the major differences between the two camera types: this XLR has a large amount of memory in the camera body, else it would be impossible to take so many photos so quickly. It takes a while to load large photos onto a CF card. What I don't understand is why manufacturers and reviewers don't list (or figure out) how much memory is in the camera itself...this would seem like a fundamental spec, like the various levels of cache on different CPUs, even within the same product family. It would certainly have helped me catch on much earlier to the differences between the two camera types, if this spec had been waved around at all.
I purchased a Sandisk 1 Gb Extreme III card, which supposedly has a 133X speed rating. But it seems like you don't need that speedy of a card, given the buffer memory in the body of the XT Rebel. You could just buy a cheap 4 Gb IBM microdrive, I think.
Zoom: on my Nikon 8700 camera, you push a lever to zoom in or out, with an accompanying SHZZZZZ sound as the lens moves in or out, slowwwly. For the XT Rebel, you grab the zoom part of the lens and twist it. The other part of the lens that can be twisted is the focus part...I'll leave that to photogs. On this XT Rebel the lens does NOT MOVE to autofocus. An internal mechanism inside the lens does that, and very quickly too.
The Canon lens can have a USM, Ultra Sonic Motor, which means that the internal focusing mechanism is damn fast. Although I bought the kit version in black with the EF-S 18-55mm f3.5-5.6, I haven't used it yet. It turns out the best Canon lenses have an "L" designation, so I bought a Canon EF 24-70/2.8 L USM (77MM). The first set of numbers, 24-70, means a zoom range (remember that I'm not a photog ;-), and the "2.8" means...well, it's complicated. It's called an "f-stop" and means how big the aperture is, or lens opening to feed the pixel sensor. A larger aperture is denoted by a smaller number, and it means the lens is better in low-light situations. This spec is also (annoyingly) called a "speed" setting. Indeed, I am annoyed at many of the specs being related to a 35mm film camera, a relic of the previous century. There is an apparent purpose though: as the prices keep coming down and the technology has moore oomph, the consumer digital cameras will finally match the historical ratings of film cameras in some way. That's why there's a "(77MM)" spec on that last lens, something to do with comparison to the old film cameras.
The lens I bought, the EF 24-70/2.8 L USM, is heavy, 2.1 pounds. It totally dominates the camera body, and two hands must be used for a shot, one to grab the lens. The kit is much smaller and probably doesn't require two hands. The next lens I might buy is the Canon EF 70-200 f/2.8L IS USM Lens. The "IS" stands for Image Stabilization, which is within the lens itself, and can be toggled on/off.
The thing about having 8 megapixel cameras is that the slightest movement when shooting might cause a blur. I've been able to hand-hold my new camera-lens for indoor shots with no problem though. The IS in the other lens will help fixup such a problem, like stabilization on a camcorder. Otherwise, use a tripod.
Here are detail pages on the two lens:
http://www.the-digital-picture.com/Reviews/Canon-EF-24-70mm-f-2.8-L-USM-Lens-Review.aspx
http://www.the-digital-picture.com/Reviews/Canon-EF-70-200mm-f-2.8-L-IS-USM-Lens-Review.aspx
The second lens is so heavy that it is the lens that mounts onto a tripod, not the camera!!!
This is an excellent site for a hard-core review of the XT Rebel / EOS 350D:
http://www.dpreview.com/articles/canoneos350d/
The Canon Xt Rebel has effortlessly taken great pictures for me, indoors. It hasn't been outside yet.
The download-directly using USB didn't work for me at first try. I am looking forward to getting that working because it means I won't have to pull the CF card in and out.