ID: B00009RAVP-R331HPX40P7ZSV-A19URVQ81WB6PB
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Soleus-Air-MS-09-Oscillating-Radiant
ReviewerID: A19URVQ81WB6PB
ReviewerName: Andrae Covington
Date: April 3, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 2.0
Title: Worked great... for five months
Content:
This was a good heater while it lasted.  I used it at my computer desk at home to supplement the furnace; often I just relied on this heater alone.  I live in an old house with little to no insulation, so warming surfaces (including me) vs trying to warm the air seemed like the way to go.  The brightness does take some getting used to, I placed mine on the floor off to the side.  This heater uses a halogen heating element shining back towards the aluminum reflective dish, so as bright as it is, you are not looking directly at the halogen bulb unless you make a concerted effort at a strange angle.
I used both the high and low settings as needed.  If you have exposed skin within two or three feet of the heater (in direct line with the heat), the high setting will start to turn your skin red.  I never had a problem while wearing long pants and long-sleeve shirts though.  I did not use the oscillation feature as I was sitting in one place and always wanted the heat on me.  If I got warm enough that it felt uncomfortable, I turned the heater off for a while.
As my review title says, everything was great for about five months.  Then I went to turn it on and saw a poof of light, then nothing; just like what usually happens when a light bulb burns out.  I took the wire screen off so I could get a better look at the heating element, which sits behind a small aluminum disc.  It is more robust than a typical halogen bulb, and appears to be hardwired.  Clearly the manufacturer did not intend for consumers to replace the heating element.  I checked their website and could not find replacement parts.  One reviewer claimed the halogen element should last 3-5 years if you don't shake or move the heater around.  Obviously this was not my experience.  Pretty expensive for five months of use.
There is a one-year warranty, but it does not include "5) Freight and Insurance cost for the warranty service."  Right.  By the time I paid to ship the thing to them... and presumably also paid for shipping the replacement back to me? ... might as well buy another one.  Typical throw-away-society example.  Disappointing, but not too surprising.