ID: B00005UP2F-R23CNX8YCILHQL-A3LI8I231FWCIP
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dirt-Devil-082600-Bagless-Canister
ReviewerID: A3LI8I231FWCIP
ReviewerName: Nancy K. Lewis
Date: September 24, 2003
Helpful: 33 of 34
Rating: 1.0
Title: Miserable former owner a Dirt Devil piece of junk
Content:
WARNING! WARNING! WARNING! DIRT DEVIL DOES NOT HONOR THE WARRANTY ON THESE MACHINES. I bought my machine in January of this year. In June I think it was I vacuumed one day and the thing worked just fine, the next day when I pressed the power button it whirred as long as I held the button in but would not stay locked into "on." I called Dirt Devil and found out that there was only one repair center that was any where close to me and that it was an hour's drive in the opposite direction from where I normally do business. The thing sat around for a few months until I could get it to the repair center. When I went to pick the machine up I was presented with a bill for $39.95 for "cleaning" the switch.  The repair center owner explained that if the switch had been defective the repair would have been covered under warranty but since it was merely dirty I had to pay for it.  There is nothing in the owner's manual referencing a need to clean the switch and the trouble shooting guide in the reference manual does not mention a dirty switch as a possible reason for the machine to not run. I left the machine at the repair center and called Dirt Devil. From several conversations with them I gather that they don't consider it a design or manufacturing defect when the machine is operated according to instructions (I was very careful to always clean out the dust cup whenever it looked like it had any accumulation of dirt) and manages to suck enough dirt up into its inner workings to kill it. They were way more interested in telling me that if I didn't pay the owner of the repair shop that he would sell my machine. They did finally offer me the option of going for the two hour round trip drive to go pick the thing up and take it to a new repair center that has opened up and get a second opinion there or to pay to send it in to Dirt Devil. Since I have owned serveral vacuum cleaners that have lasted ten years or more each without ever quitting and since I have had such a miserable time so far with this thing I've decided I'm much better off without any of Dirt Devil's junk cluttering up my closet. I would highly recommend that you look elsewhere for a vacuum cleaner.