ID: B000NVTZXY-R3QSJ4HGTYZREO-A3LWC833HQIG7J
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Digital-14-42mm-3-5-5-6-40-150mm
ReviewerID: A3LWC833HQIG7J
ReviewerName: Larry Diamond
Date: January 21, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Finally a return to SLR photography for me at a great price and quality
Content:
Digital photography is great. No film, bad pictures..poof gone, instant pictures, sharing with friends and family around the world, different ISOs, black and white or color all at the touch of a button. We are all familiar with why we like digital photography. Well I was a 35mm SLR photographer for a long time. I LOVED it. Loved the lenses, loved the control, and loved the results. I even developed my own photos for a time. But digital seduced me. DSLR was simply out of my price range.
Enter the Olympus 410. I just received it last week but had an unexpected vacation opportunity come up this past weekend so I was able to take it through its paces. First off do some research. There is a great review above and plenty more all over the web. I did and found the 410 very highly regarded. One of its big selling points to me is that it was designed as a DSLR as where the included lenses here from the ground up. That means that everything is optimized for digital SLR photography and this produces very good results. You will also find from the reviews that it is more compact and lighter than most DSLRs around. I tried a friend's Nikon D60 and it was certainly smaller and lighter than the D60.
Over the past weekend I took the best pictures of people and landscapes I have ever taken with a digital camera. If you never have used a 35mm SLR this camera has a VERY well designed menu that will let you shoot in automatic mode right out of the box and also put some of the more common adjustments right in front of you. The auto-focusing is fast and accurate. I was using aperture priority and what happens is there is a wheel next to the shutter button. You simply twist the wheel and the aperture changes. If you were in shutter priority it would change the shutter speed. There is also an exposure under/over button right by the shutter and you can 'bracket' photos very easily with it.
I frankly just used the view-finder since I was so overjoyed to be back to SLR photography. However I did use the live view on a macro shot and it worked very well for that. If you are not familiar with SLR cameras you might think what the big deal is. Well ever wonder how sports photographers get their shots? I mean using a point and shoot by the time you press the shutter button and a picture is shot forget it usually. It is because the sports photographers use SLR cameras. When you press the shutter the picture is taken, no lag. If you want to capture good action shots you need a DSLR. Do note though that using live view you are 'back' to the lag in point and shoot digital cameras. You only get the instant shooting with the viewfinder.
Also the photo quality is better because the sensors are bigger than on point and shoot cameras. So even though a point and shoot might have 10 megs, its pixel size will be smaller. 
This kit is an awesome way to get into DSLRs with a quality camera, TWO quality lenses, and good support from Olympus. I asked an email question and it was answered in depth within 2 hours. About the lenses they will take you from wide-angle to a pretty high zoom range. And the bigger lens is not that much heavier or larger than the smaller one. Sure it would be nice to have one lens with the same range as both of these but the price is already amazing for this package. But this is still real money and is not cheap. It would not make sense to get this if it was not also a very good camera, which it is. Many competitors did not design their DSLRs as digital cameras from the ground up, Olympus did with its E series. With this package you can reap the benefit of that decision along with a truly amazing price point. 
Highly suggested for people wanting to return to SLRs within a budget and digital photographers looking to get much better results and explore the world of SLR control and creativity.