ID: B000NOEDGK-R9RZQPCV1LZW5-A36B0KO1896PYJ
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G-Zoom-Nikkor
ReviewerID: A36B0KO1896PYJ
ReviewerName: Bijou_Baby
Date: August 30, 2007
Helpful: 12 of 12
Rating: 5.0
Title: better than olympus evolt 500
Content:
Originally, I had purchased the Olympus e volt 500 because I had read the reviews and most seemed very favorable. I'm very new to photography and I didn't exactly know what I was buying exactly, I thought Olympus camera seemed simple enough for me to use and was a great price. After shopping for a camera for over 4 months, I ordered the evolt500. What a mistake!  The camera took less than stellar photographs and was larger and looked like an older model camera with little to no modern edges. They were good but not WOW. After a few days of use, the Olympus began malfunctioning by shutting down randomly and the lcd screen would static. I shipped that back and amazon was wonderful enough to reimburse me for my shipping when the vendor didn't. 
Side Note: and another thing. I feel better when I purchase from Amazon as opposed to the other vendors. I may pay more (like I did for my Nikon d40x) but I think it's money well spent when I know that is something goes wrong past the first 15 days, my expensive investment is protected by someone other than the warranty.  
On a whim, I ordered the Nikon d40x. I had read the reviews and even walked over to best buy to test it out the camera. I still wasn't sure about the camera or what to expect. As soon as my camera arrived today (thanks, Amazon!) I opened the box and starting shooting. The pictures are amazing! Clear, crystal, sharp, and beautiful. The Olympus Evot500 (broken or not) does not hold a handle to the quality of shots the Nikon has to offer. 
Bottom line in any camera is the lens. The Nikkor has a higher quality lens, therefore the camera itself is an excellent choice. 
Nikon d40/ d40x VS. Canon RebelTi: 
I thought the canon would be easier to use because I have a powershot camera which makes me familiar with the format. The good news is that Nikon is also simple to use, if not a better format than canon. I couldn't be happier. 
The price is a bit more than what I wanted to pay for a dslr but I am very excited to start shooting, a feeling I never had while I owned the Olympus even before I discovered the defects in the merchandise. The camera itself did not inspire me to go out and capture photographs. 
The Nikon is fun, light, and sexy. Yes, I said sexy. 
As a beginner, I am thrilled about my purchase. I can't explain it... I feel like I have my creative juices boiling and I cannot wait to get started. 
If anyone is a beginner and is looking for the next step-up with as much quality, price and ease- you cant go wrong with a Nikon or its family of lenses. 
Happy Shooting!