ID: B000G1CXZI-R3L3DJ4GSRDGL9-A13WOT3RSXKRD5
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-TRN0812T-Portable-Oil-Filled-Programmable
ReviewerID: A13WOT3RSXKRD5
ReviewerName: LD
Date: April 18, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Instructions! The first time you start this heater....
Content:
Take the heater to a room that you can close the door to and will not use for the next 24 hours- spare bedroom, bath, or garage. Before you plug it in- push all the red pins on the timer dial toward the center. This will prevent the heater from going on and off during your testing. You can program it later. Plug the cord in. Click both red switches to on and they will light up. Each switch controls a separate heating coil. If they do not light up, go to the black box on the power cord and press the red button. If you now have both switches light up, you have just solved the problems of over half who have written reviews saying the heater did not work. Rotate the temperature dial to the highest setting. Run the heater for 3 hours. There should be a lot of heat coming off the unit. If both switches are still red, the heater is working. You will smell the burn off but it is over at this point. Turn the switch for the hotter side off. You can continue the test in the room you want to run the heater in or leave it where it is. Turn the temperature dial down to a lower setting if you wish. It is better to run the unit on a low setting 24 hours a day than to have it going on and off. I found that I had to leave the door to the room open at  setting #3 to keep it from getting too hot in my mountain home during the winter. I ran 3 of these units in my 2 story home all winter and the main furnace hardly kicked on. They cost about $20 more a month in electricity compared to gas. Not bad. I bought 7 of these units. I left each on for a month. I then boxed it up and tried the next one. I had one quit after 2 weeks and got a replacement. Once a room has been at a constant temperature for several days it does not take much to keep it there. If you want a warm bathroom, leave it on a low setting and crack the door. The excess heat will warm your hall and other rooms over time. The bath will stay warm no matter when you use it. Timers are a weak spot and they will fail before the heater is worn out. Its your money. Other than a factory defect-like the one I had- most of the complaints are because the people did not follow these steps. The manufacturer failed to explain these details.