ID: B0000YTYGM-R1VJOGDF8VY64L-A2XTOI57K3XA62
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DTC-975BKN-Programmable-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A2XTOI57K3XA62
ReviewerName: Bookman
Date: June 25, 2007
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 3.0
Title: Leaves a Bad Taste
Content:
I recently bought this machine.  I haven't had any of the problems I've read in other reviews.  No overflows, no leaks.  For a few days I tasted a chemical flavor in some of my pots, but I switched to bottled water and that problem went away.
I really like having the brewed coffee drip directly into a thermal carafe that I don't have to open.  I pull the carafe away from the machine, walk it over to my coffee table, set it down, and simply pour a cup whenever I want.  I don't ever have to fiddle with the carafe lid to pour coffee.  I like that a lot.
Now, the bad news.  My thermal carafe has a serious flaw: after three hours in the carafe my coffee tastes like ... coffee that's been sitting around for three hours.  Worse, actually. Ironically, on the outside of the box Cuisinart claims "[t]he patented lid helps create better tasting coffee by sealing out air, which can cause a bitter taste.  A double-walled insulated stainless steel thermal carafe retains heat and just-brewed flavor for hours."  Oh, really?
I tried a little experiment this morning.  I made a 10-cup pot.  I poured one cup and sat it on the counter.  Then I poured about half the remaining pot into a vacuum-sealed carafe I've had for a couple of years.  Three hours later, I microwaved the cup of coffee, poured cups from each of the carafes, and conducted a three-way taste test.  The coffee from my old carafe tasted best--virtually fresh.  Believe-it-or-not the microwaved coffee tasted almost as good.  The Cuisinart-carafe coffee tasted awful.  And unlike the other coffees it was full of air bubbles and had a grimy, oily film on top.  It looked and tasted more like coffee that had been cooking on a burner for three hours, not sitting in a supposedly air-tight carafe.
If this machine had cost $40 instead of twice that, this problem wouldn't be a deal-breaker.  After all, the coffee tastes excellent when fresh; and most of the time my wife and I drink all the coffee within an hour or so.  This is why it's worth three stars to me, instead of one.  But I'm going to exchange it for another of the same model.  Maybe my carafe lid is defective.  I'll keep you posted.
UPDATE 7/14/07: I went to Sam's Club and made an even exchange.  This morning I tried another three-way taste test, just like the one I performed the other day.  (Amazon has been showing a June date for this post.  Actually, I posted it only a few days ago.)  My results were the same.  The coffee from the Cusinart thermal carafe was disgusting after just three hours.  I'll be contacting Cusinart directly to try and get to the bottom of this problem.  I'll keep you posted.