ID: B000JEGK6A-R2EZXMO9HZ231S-A1018F878K2VD7
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Sunpentown-SH-1507-Mini-Tower-Ceramic-Heater
ReviewerID: A1018F878K2VD7
ReviewerName: Jack Safro "J.S."
Date: February 24, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best purchase I've made in 2010
Content:
I LOVE this little heater. I live in St. Pete Florida and needed a space heater for the unseasonably cold weather that we had here. I live in a 650 sq. foot, poorly insulated, garage apartment, and this heater really saved the day when it was in the 20's and 30's outside. We ran only this heater and not our central heater, as the latter costs a fortune and does very little in the way of actual heating. The space heater was used mostly in one large room that comprises about 40% of our apartment, and also in the bedroom which is about 25%. In the bedroom with the door closed this sucker kept it quite warm, even on low (and the bedroom is like 15x13 feet). Granted it takes an hour or so to heat the whole room, but it worked great (so great that we had to shut it off in the middle of the night because we were sweating under our heavy comforter). In the large room, the heater did an admirable job and kept it bearable throughout the cold spell (and that large room has so many drafts it's like all of professional sports combined). Now, with the weather more temperate (40's and 50's) this little heater heats whatever room I'm in without a problem. 
	I love the high and low settings and the fact that the high setting draws only 1200W (as opposed to 1500W for most space heaters). The unit is quite small and no part of it is too hot to touch at any time. It is a breeze to move from room to room. This heater would be a good choice for anyone with children or pets, as it has a knockover shut-off. It is very quiet (though not silent as some have said). In a room with any ambient noise, you're not likely to hear the heater. In a quiet bedroom it sounds like (surprise) a small fan. There are some days when it sounds a little bit rough on startup, but this noise goes away within a minute or so. 
	My unit has held up great (I've had it for a few months now and ran it 24 hrs a day for weeks), but I am very careful not to knock it or use it in a humid area (like a bathroom). I could see this heater breaking if it is knocked over or hit against something while moving it between rooms. Also, I take care to hold the heater with one hand whenever I turn the on/off knob with the other hand, because the knob takes a good bit of torque to rotate. If I were to turn the knob without holding the heater I would be twisting the whole heater on its base which could potentially damage the oscillation feature. With proper care this heater seems like it will fare well.	
	For me, this heater was a great buy. It was relatively inexpensive, it is small and easy to store, and it puts out an admirable amount of heat for its size. I wouldn't rely on it to bring a large room up to a short sleeve and shorts temperature in the dead of winter, but it will definitely take the edge off the cold. In a closed room this heater will bring the temperature up nicely. 
	Amazon, as always, was a pleasure to deal with. Oddly, the manufacturer's packaging looked like it had been opened and re-taped, but the interior packaging appeared factory fresh. I guess it could have been opened and re-sealed, or the Sunpentown factory just tapes up their boxes sloppily. Either way, the heater is great, and I am quite pleased.