ID: B000CDHS7I-R2AJ7VF0JJRUR-AZZ5U380URI57
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Krups-FMF5-Programmable-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: AZZ5U380URI57
ReviewerName: Fishstick
Date: April 12, 2008
Helpful: 20 of 20
Rating: 5.0
Title: But He Never Has a Second Cup?
Content:
After my Starbucks Barista Coffee Maker dispensed its brew all over the counter for the third time I decided it was time for a new coffee maker. There were three things the Barista had, which my new coffee maker had to have as well: 
1. Thermal carafe 
2. Brew timer 
3. Counter top appeal 
I searched my junk drawer for a 20% off Bed Bath and Beyond coupon and found an expired one. Lucky for me they never really expire and I purchased a $99.00 Krups FMF5 in black for $85.89 out the door. I am hurried coffee snob. That means I have to have an expensive Arabica bean, an automatic drip coffee maker and a 2 tablespoons grounds to 6 - 8 oz. filtered water ratio (if I wasn't in a hurry I would grind whole beans and use a French press). I am a prior Krups user, having owned one in the late 80's early 90's. 
I did no research prior to buying the FMF5. The machine had the features I wanted and is a brand I once owned and was happy with that ownership. I set the timer and clock, ran water through it and seasoned it by making a pot of coffee for discard (the first cup of coffee through a new machine is typically awful). I then set up the machine for the next day's coffee. 
I decided to read reviews, expecting to be delighted by my great buy. To my surprise the reviews were mixed. This machine is either hated or loved. After one week of use I find myself in the latter category. This review cannot attest to this machine's longevity, but will delineate a 20-year coffee consumer's one-week experience with this machine. 
In the looks department this machine really stood out among the other displays. The stainless steel on the filer basket door and the roof looks good. The machined satin finish does a good job of masking fingerprints. 
There is a #4 cone filter basket, which hangs behind a spring-loaded swing out door. Just pull the lever and the filter basket swings open. I prefer cone filters to flat-bottom. Cone filters are superior when making just one cup of coffee as it concentrates the grounds at the bottom. I am glad to be back to a machine that uses cone-filters. Tip: Fold the pleats of a cone paper filter over at the bottom and side, then open to insert. This will keep the filter from folding over when it gets wet during the brew process. 
The thermal carafe sits on top of a (I know I couldn't believe it either) hotplate. At the end of the brew cycle the hotplate will turn off in 20 minutes. This boost of heat probably eliminates the need for preheating the carafe. In my experience coffee carafes drip unless particular attention is paid during the pour. As far as this carafe goes there is nary a drop, however there is a trick to dispensing the last few ounces. You must remove the lid and invert the carafe almost completely upside down. As long as you keep the pour spout over your cup you won't loose any coffee. This machine also has a pause and brew feature, which allows the most impatient to pour a cup before brewing is complete, eliminating coffee on the hotplate. Just don't let me catch anyone pouring coffee before the cycle ends, leaving a weak brew for the rest of us. 
The display panel is a 4-button panel with LED screen. I would have preferred a more modern LED display, but this LED screen serves its function. The screen requires a backlight to see the numbers in a low light setting, which in this case is blue. In addition to the standard clock and brew time there are a couple of unique functions. There is a 1 - 3 cup function, which can be set when making only 1 - 3 cups of coffee (remember a "cup" to a coffee maker does not equal 8 oz. of water, to get one good mug you need to fill to the #2 line). Another function is the descaling indicator. This alerts the user when its time to run vinegar or descaling agent through the machine. 
The water fill reservoir is a little narrow requiring some aim when pouring water into it. As the reservoir fills you can see the water line rise on the indicator located on the unit's exterior. There is also a red plastic piece in the reservoir, which indicates the max fill line. When filled to the max fill indicator the water line is just a hair above the #10 on the exterior display. This machine comes with a water filter, which is a consumable requiring replacement every 2 - 3 months depending on the hardness of your water. The piece that holds the water filter in place has a number dial to remind you when replacement is due. Since I use filtered water to make coffee I won't need to purchase the Krups water filters. 
As stated previously I have been using this machine for one week. The coffee this maker produces is excellent. It has gotten a bit better each day as I have learned to tweak the amount of grounds and the machine is becoming more seasoned. The coffee comes out hot, but not scalding. I particularly don't like to have to blow on my coffee and then attempt to sip the tiniest amount in fear of 2nd degree burns to my mouth. Today I had some coffee that was brewed 2 ½ hours prior to pour and the coffee was still hot enough for enjoyment (no microwave required). 
I am extremely satisfied with this coffee maker. Prior machines I have owned required frequent wipe-downs of the hotplate or carafe shelf and countertop. This one keeps itself clean without all the drips. 
I recommend this coffee maker.  You can spend much more on other coffee makers with similar features.  A thermal carafe is a great advantage to those not planning to immediately drink their coffee.  There is nothing like waking up to just brewed, fresh coffee.