ID: B000K36EPM-R39E4M1L9RPW4J-AN9YPLOJ3U0L
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Mr-Coffee-FTTX95-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: AN9YPLOJ3U0L
ReviewerName: jenna "jenna"
Date: May 17, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 1.0
Title: I wish I could give negative stars
Content:
I don't think I've ever written a bad review before, but I wanted to warn people away from this terrible coffee maker. I wanted a coffee maker that was programmable, and had a thermal carafe. This one seemed reasonably priced and it had both those elements, so I went for it.
The programming component works fine however, the clock does not. Within 2-3 days, the clock is off by nearly an hour which means resetting the clock before programming the brew time.
The thermal carafe is anything but- I assumed that the stainless steel was just the exterior finish and that OF COURSE the interior would be lined with some kind of insulating material. Not so. Freshly brewed coffee is not hot. If you pour it immediately after brewing, it's ok. Not great, but ok in temperature. If you add milk or cream to your coffee, forget it; it's tepid. 
I grind the beans for my coffee the night before. I find myself using about 30% more ground coffee to get the same strength I had with my previous maker, even using the "strong" setting. I don't even drink my coffee that strong, so if you prefer it really strong, beware.
The worst part of this coffee maker is the smell. The first pot we brewed stank of newly manufactured synthetic materials. I ran 8 cycles of vinegar water through it, then several cycles of just water through it, and it still stank. I called customer service, who recommended I buy a specially formulated cleaner for it. ?! Vinegar has been cleaning my coffee makers perfectly well for 20 years. I even ran about 5-6 cycles through the coffee maker with dishwasher detergent. Finally, the coffee no longer tastes like noxious plastic, but the kitchen is still slightly redolent of it after brewing a pot.
I had been using a $15 Procter Silex machine that my husband picked up at Kmart. That maker served us well for 5 years and was used every day. I can't believe that paying more than 3 times that price netted me this piece of junk. I'll be shopping around and donating this to the charity shop around the corner, although I feel bad for the person that gets stuck with it.