ID: B00006JL08-RDSZXH5KYPOHN-A1GKTGHCX34CA0
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Braun-KF580-AromaDeluxe-TimeControl-Coffemaker
ReviewerID: A1GKTGHCX34CA0
ReviewerName: D. Maddock "DHM"
Date: July 7, 2007
Helpful: 2 of 5
Rating: 1.0
Title: Braun used to make high quality coffeemakers . . .
Content:
We replaced an older Braun coffeemaker that we had like very much--and had for about 10 years--with this piece of junk.  It's flimsy. The basket sometimes cannot be opened to add coffee!  You have to used a knife or other tool to pry it open, if you can believe that.  
The basket itself sometimes falls off because it's poorly attached by tiny little plastic "knobs" that can barely hold onto the coffeemaker.  
The filter Braun provided does not fit into the coffeemaker.  So, I ordered a second one -- gold -- and it also does not fit.  If you wiggle it and jam it in forcefully you can just barely get it to seat inside the plastic funnel, but just barely.  Something is not right here.  
Braun used to make high-quality German-made small appliances.  This product is absolute junk, however.  And it leaks.  And it glass carafe is poorly made.  The lid falls off repeatedly even though it's designed to snap on tightly--but it doesn't hold.  
The carafe glass is very thin, very delicate, almost like a wine glass and seems very likely to break.  And, unlike other coffeemakers we have owned, the carafe is completely loose on the burner, not even appearing to exactly fit the size of the burner.  If you should happen to try to pick up the coffeemaker with the carafe on it, well look out!  The carafe will fall off. On other coffeemakers, the carafe sometimes snaps into the unit to prevent it from falling off as you carry it.  
And, as for the coffee it makes, it is mediocre at best -- and barely warm.  On our previous Braun, the coffee was nice and hot.  This produces coffee that is barely warm so, if you can believe this, we actually have to take our cup of fresh coffee and put it in the microwave for 30-45 seconds to make it hot.  Unbelievable. Probably their response to lawsuit anxieties.  
I will simply avoid Braun small appliances as their quality just is not their and their design standards have virtually disappeared.  We are simply going to put this thing into the garbage can.  I don't even want to give it away since whoever ended up with it would have a dangerous glass carafe that would sooner or later fall off and an appliance that was difficult to open which made bad coffee.  Every expectation you look for in a coffeemaker, this Braun falls well short of meeting.