ID: B000050I7W-R1EQSVCJYF5772-ATHXGPAVMROP3
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Kero-World-KW-11F-Portable-Kerosene
ReviewerID: ATHXGPAVMROP3
ReviewerName: Charlene G. Shaffer "mezzo"
Date: November 13, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 3.0
Title: Okay Heater
Content:
I bought this heater to suppliment our oil furnace so I didn't have to heat the whole house.  It works good as far as heat out put goes, easily heating 400 square feet of space.  There isn't any kind of heat adjustment on it, other than to keep the wick burning at an optimum flame.  There were times I wished I could turn it down a notch.  I liked the fact you could remove the tank for filling, but the directions say to shut the heater off before doing so, so you can't expect to keep it running for extended periods of time.  On one such fill up, I apparently didn't get the tank seated correctly, even though the top door did close correctly.  The wick started going out and really stunk the place up.  The heater does need to be lit and extinguished outside, which means carrying it very carefully so as to not trip the automatic shut off.  In doing so, the wall guard which I still haven't figured out the reason for, tends to get in the way.  The weight is also off centered with the tank being on one end.  The heater isn't real heavy.  You just have to compensate for most of the weight being on one end so you carry it level.  The heater does need to be elevated at least a foot off the floor if you are using it on anything other than bare concrete, because it does tend to get very warm for about two feet in front of it.  Fortunately, the bottom, sides, and top stay cool, so it can be set on most anything that is stable.  If it were not for the having to light it, extinguish it, and let it burn outside for at least 5 minutes until the odor dissipates, I would give it more stars.  It is probably just the nature of the beast and not a fault of the heater.  I didn't have any other trouble with it, and it worked as advertised.  I would say that it is a good heater to use in an emergency, but not one for ongoing suplimental heat.