ID: B000BEUZS2-R2MLCOR1XQFXBI-A35W3JQYP0M655
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Holmes-HFH111T-U-Heater-Comfort-Control-Thermostat
ReviewerID: A35W3JQYP0M655
ReviewerName: Ambergris "John Thomas"
Date: November 13, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Simple As The Come......Best Of The Economy Lot
Content:
I have a very small, 5x8 bathroom in the basement that gets quite chilly during the colder months.  Most heaters are simply a little too much for such a tiny space.  The problem with the small space heater line is that most of them are simply cheap.  They get really hot for their size and unfortunately seem to burn out rather prematurely compared to beefier models.  This little Holmes unit I bought locally is as good as they come quality wise for the money.  There was one other unit I saw a little cheaper at the same store.  However it was a low, flat model that was designed more as a shelf unit.  That model had the control knob on the side which was a pain to get at and operate unless you held the unit still with the other hand.  This Holmes model stands upright and has its controls conveniently at the top, where they belong in my opinion.  It has two levels of heat and a fan only option.  Although just about all of these small models have a high and low setting for heat, the higher one usually being 1500 watts, I neither recommend buying one that carries just the high setting alone, nor do I consider it necessary or economical running any of these small heaters on the high setting for any length of time.  They are all capable and safe to operate at that wattage, but the heaters get very hot at that setting, and running it almost exclusively on high is what tends to burn them out prematurely in my opinion.  I would suggest anyone buying one of these economy units to run them on the lower settings as much as possible. They may need a little more time to provide the same level of comfort you desire, but they will not get so hot to handle that you cannot pick it up or get that close to it.  And it will end up lasting you years longer than running it full throttle. Mine is going on three years old now and still looks and operates like new.  
In short, their are only a couple of models in this line that are slightly cheaper than this unit.  Both are made by companies that I have never seen in stores.  That is not a condemnation, simply an observation.  Holmes heaters are available everywhere, and are probably the oldest company around in the field of small space heaters.  I recommend this model for your small heating needs.  I think its convenient to operate, safe and durable, and the very best of the economy line of space heaters...