ID: B0002ZAEY0-R3EJ0TN16V5WS5-AKH61S5GTDYG4
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Photo-White-M9586LL-Generation
ReviewerID: AKH61S5GTDYG4
ReviewerName: max power
Date: November 7, 2004
Helpful: 113 of 136
Rating: 5.0
Title: iPod and beyond
Content:
iPod business model
-------------------
What makes iPod a successful product? It's plain and simple - Apple has come up with an intelligent business model; sell music through the internet and use iPod as the "portable nexus" for easy access to our music in an organized manner. I think the toughest challenge that Apple has is to convince people that iTunes and iPod combination works. A lot of people like to buy cds - they want to have them in their own hands. Who doesn't? You get the cd and the cover art. That is the marketing tool of the music business and it has been working for a long time. At the end, that is how they justify the prices that they chargd on those music (average about $11 to $15 per cd for a standard album). I once belong to this group but the following reasons justify why I no longer want to buy cds... and to own an iPod.
Advantages
----------
1. Reduce Clutter
We have enough clutter in our house/life and cds don't help us to organize things better - we keep accumulating them. At some point, I said to myself, "Alright, this is it. I have to stop accumulating these cds." But at the same thing, we want to keep listening to new music.  That's when Apple came to the rescue - by allowing me to store music in digital format. Thank god iPods don't get "fatter" as we store more music into it.
2. Portability
I am sick of carrying cds with me wherever I go. To make matter worse, I am good at scratching cds - I cannot help it. Hence, iPod totally eliminates my problem. Secondly, I own Bose SoundDock. Hence, I just dock an play!  In the long run, I do not see a reason for me to buy huge audio equipment/speakers. I am just going to buy some more Bose SoundDocks and station them everywhere. As you can tell, I am not a big fan of earphones - I think they can do a permanent damage to your hearing down the road.
3. Album Prices
All album prices at Apple is set at $9.99. I love it - it will save me time from running to the stores and buying the cds and it also reduces "impulse buying at the store" to some degree ;). To top it all, it saves me money from spending $4 extra bucks at the music stores on a cd. Sometimes, I don't want to buy the whole album - iTunes thus gives us an option to buy one song for $.99. 
4. Sleek design
One of the greatest thing about Apple products is their intuitive design(I am an Windows user but I admire Apple's creativity when it comes to this). The intuitiveness of Click Wheel is natural. Here is an example; a colleague of mind never used an iPod. She picked it up and start to listen to the song. She asked me,"How do you increase the volume on this thing?" 2 seconds later she said, "Whoaa! Never mind." That's how intuitive it is(you'll figure it out ;)). You can also attach album cover image to each album. I thought that was pretty cool although it takes up some space to store those images.
5. Organization
iPod allows you to customize your music by genres, albums, songs, and artists etc. After storing all your song collections into iPod, you can start using the playlist and smart playlist features in iTunes. Playlist simply allows you to organize your music using any theme, i.e. workout songs etc. Interestingly enough, smart playlist allows you to defines criteria so you can have a unique playlist without manually dragging songs into your playlist. For instance, you can say, "add songs to this list with an artist that has the name 'Maynard' in it but the genre is not Metal." As a result, if you have albums where artists name is 'Maynard', excluding the albums with the 'Metal' genre, iTunes will intelligently find  all the songs that match the criteria in your jukebox and add it to the list. You have an option of whether to add the songs to the list as more albums are stored in your iPod or you can just commit it at that point. I think that is revolutionary (although not new to programmers that have been using this feature in their programming lives).
One thing to be concerned about
-------------------------------
1. Connector(Attachment)
I have been very careful attaching a monitor cable to the back of a computer. It so easy to bend those pins. I take the same measure with my iPod. Everytime I dock it, either to iPod docking station or Bose sounddock, I have the fear that the connector pins are going to get broken. That will be bad. Hence, be very gentle when you dock your iPod - don't force it in.
Awkwardness
-------
1. Music during exercise
During exercise, I found it awkward to strap the iPod to my arm. It's kind of big compared to some other players like Rio. Hence, I usually dock it to my Bose sounddock.
Advice
------
1. Get extended Warranty
Remember, iPod uses a hard drive. If you like me who always drop things, get the extended warranty. It will save you some griefs in the future.
2. Defragment your iPod(Is it a good idea?)
Fragmentation happens when you add/delete individual songs/albums from the pod itself. If you do that often, use iPod update to restore the content to your iPod. I don't recommend messing around with a defragmenter.
3. Backup your harddrive
Always backup your harddrive especially if you buy music online and not planning to burn any backup cds. An investment on tape backup is worthwhile if you decided to purchase al music from iTunes.
4. Get a nice iPod protector
It's easy to scratch an iPod, especially the part in the back. Hence, use a protector case.
All in all, I realize this is iPod photo - that you can store photos and display them among other things. This idea hasn't grown in me yet. But I am sure when I start traveling, I will start using this feature. 
Spending $599 on an iPod is a lot. Make sure you have your reasons to justify it. Like Suze Orman said,"The reason why we keep buying things is because of the fear that we don't have that item. Once we have that item, the fear is gone because we have the 'physical' item. Alas, we stop using the item because the fear is now gone! Don't spend money because of this reason alone - make sure you see your purchases as an investment. Enjoy!