ID: B000BWI5F4-R3F28ADJLEI2CR-A3TQN9VBR8NC8L
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bosch-Compact-Canister-Vacuum-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A3TQN9VBR8NC8L
ReviewerName: Savetherobots "Clean Fiend"
Date: February 5, 2008
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best Vacuum for Studio w/ Mostly Hard Wood Floors
Content:
The Bosch BSA2222UC Compact Hard Floor Canister Vacuum Cleaner is underated here at Amazon.  Partly due to a reviewer who appeared to have a legitimate complaint about customer service when her unit malfunctioned. Bosch, a German manufacturer, does uphold a solid reputation for quality build still today and it is probably fairly uncommon to have a situation where a Bosch unit breaks down after a few short months IMHO, this would be the rare exception.  Sorry if i sound like a company shill, i'm not.
If the reviewer were rating the vacuum performance of a standard Bosch Compact Plus Hard Floor unit (and not deducting heavily for customer service, who the vast majority of owners will never need to contact) clearly the overall performance rating would be much higher. Bottom Line:  this unit is essentially the Lexus of small compact vacuums and functions beautifully on hard wood floors. 
I spent months searching for the best unit for my studio apartment.  I have a couple of 3x5 wool rugs and the rest hard flooring and had previously relied on a cheap and noisy Eureka broom vac.  I decided it was time to invest in a quality unit.  Ultimately, i chose between the Electrolux Harmony and the Bosch Compact Hard Floor.  I am very pleased i chose the Bosch.  The vacuum bag replacements are also sold at Ebay.  If you buy a few packages (5 in a pack) at once and stock up you can get the cost down to $5 -7 per package (fairly inexpensive) and i haven't had to change the bag once yet in six months (I do not use it very frequently, once every 2 weeks on avergage :0 )
The adjustable suction is very powerful (but not overpowering)even on the lowest setting and once you purchase a dusting brush (sold separately at Bosch and other websites) hard to reach dust, dirt or (dry)spills will be no match for the compact plus.  The vacuum is relatively light weight, highly maneuverable, and a practically designed piece of equiptment.  One minor gripe is that I do wish all the wheels had 360 rotation but it is unlikley that you can find that added convenience/ maneuverability at this price point anywhere. 
I sometimes purposely leave it out on top of a dresser in hopes that my lazy buns will be more inspired to use it -if i see it is out in the open -handy to grab and put to use on the fly.  In any case, the compact design eliminates storage hassles, fitting the Bosch Compact Floor vac easily into shorter cubbies and shelves rather than requiring valuable closet space. 
Prices for this vacuum vary widely by retailer so be sure to look around.  I used Pricegrabber and found a vendor who offered it at $230.00.  I have had it for almost a year but my 5th Gen Roomba seems to get more play these days... still i couldn't live as comfortably without my Bosch which goes where my Roomba can't go!  They are certainly MY little cleaning dream team!  
If you are looking for one of the best possible picks for hard wood floor cleaning, waste no more time and get a Bosch Compact Hard Floor:  i bet you'll be singing its praises too.  My only regret is wasting money on cheapy, noisy units that break after a year or two. This is seriously the Real McCoy when it comes to hard floor vacuums, it just doesn't get much better than this at this price range.  
Performance, quiet operation and well conceived design can all be favorably compared to the Miele compact unit produced by another German manufacturer and costing much more money.