ID: B000VDQ38E-R293N0HCAVO4NH-A36PGZ1Y0QH8R1
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A36PGZ1Y0QH8R1
ReviewerName: Brenda Hammond "Computer Lady"
Date: April 30, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Exactly what I needed
Content:
We have two cats that shed quite a bit. We have mostly hardwood floors, with 2 large area rugs. My main issue was the cat hair on the furniture, so I was looking for a vacuum that would work on both my rugs and bare floors, but would also get the car hair off the furniture with a minimum amount of work on my part.
I got this vacuum yesterday (April 29, 2008). The hardest part about assembling it was going back to the laundry room to get a longer screwdriver - it has to reach through the cord/tool holder when attaching the handle. Other than that, I had the thing assembled and running in no time.
It was amazing how much dirt this vacuum picked up from the area rug in the front part of our house (the cats aren't allowed in there). I ran it over the bare floors, too, and it worked great. I had no trouble emptying the canister, and am thrilled not to have to deal with bags (we live in a small community, sometimes things like that are hard to come by here).
Moving down to the den where the cats live, it did take several passes to get all the cat hair out of the area rug, because I haven't had a good vacuum to do that. But, this vacuum did the job. Then I attached the Pet TurboBrush and tackled the furniture. I have three main pieces of furniture - a velvet chair, a suede massage chair, and a regular cloth sectional. The Pet TurboBrush did an absolutely awesome job of getting the hair off the velvet chair and the sectional, and it was very easy on my part. The other attachment (the Pet Contour tool which is kind of rubbery) worked much better on the suede massage chair.
The bottom line is that this vacuum is exactly what I was looking for. Granted, I have only had it one day, but at this point I am very pleased. I have two daughters that need vacuums, and this is the one I will get them.