ID: B000SNRBWE-R9CNYGNPMKAR5-A1MQQEM7W77L62
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Panasonic-MC-CG973-Canister-Vacuum-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1MQQEM7W77L62
ReviewerName: R. Anderson
Date: April 21, 2008
Helpful: 28 of 28
Rating: 5.0
Title: Finally a vacuum that really works!!
Content:
I've had this vacuum only two weeks, but we just moved into a rental home that wasn't cleaned very well. Adding to that is the fact that we have a number of pet birds so there's seed and feathers everywhere. 
The vacuum is ready to go right out of the box. The only assembly involves attaching the hose assembly to the vacuum and then attaching the floor attachment to that. Both these things were very easy. The canister it's self is compact and doesn't weigh that much. I don't have a weight for it, but I do have a bad back and shoulder and found it very easy to either roll around or carry, even up stairs.
It comes with a bag installed, and the attachments neatly installed under a cover on the canister, it's really nice to have a place to store the attachments, but yet have them close by when you need them.
The vacuum is pretty quiet as well. It's not silent, but I noticed that in spite of (war torn) hearing I could still hear a radio that was on in the room at the time. Now I realize that doesn't tell you how loud the radio is so try this; I was vacuuming about 15 feet from a cage of four parakeets and I could hear them very well. Maybe that's easier to picture then how loud my radio might be.
I'm very happy with the suction power of this vacuum. I think we've all had vacuums that you have to roll back forth over things to get them picked up, or bend over pick it up, and put it by the intake to finally pick up. The panasonic is really excellent at vacuuming. 
I had a lot of bird seed and feathers on deep pile carpet, there really was a lot. I only had to make a forward and back pass to pick everything up. It has a nice edge pickup on the floor brush that works well to. There is a switch on the floor attachment that turns the vacuum on an off, and allows you to switch between carpet and wood flooring. The vacuum has a nice feature that should you roll over the power cord or a lamp cord it doesn't eat the cord, and it works I ran over the cord a couple times, and hit a couple lamp cords with no problems.
Lastly I've always hated dealing with the cord on vacuums, this unit has a retractable cord that works nicely, and isn't so strong you have to worry about small pets or your feet.
The only thing I wish the vacuum had was an extension tube to use with the attachments, but that is my only complaint. So, I'm definitely keeping it. 
All in all I like this vacuum a great deal, and wouldn't hesitate to recommend it to friends and family.