ID: B000AQPMHA-R27OPM69269AFJ-AT9U5ZE5OO84C
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Gourmet-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: AT9U5ZE5OO84C
ReviewerName: M. Kooiman "nerdette"
Date: February 19, 2007
Helpful: 11 of 12
Rating: 5.0
Title: Coffee and tea for every taste
Content:
I live in a household of three - one drinks decaf, one drinks flavored coffee and I used to drink just about anything that looks like coffee.  However, I don't necessarily LIKE drip coffee or instant.  On most days I endured a cup of instant coffee at home followed by the "not so great but free" coffee at work. I always thought the single cup coffee makers were just a money making gimmick until the day I sampled a cup of coffee from this machine.  My taste buds were in heaven and I bought the machine on the spot without any regrets.
The Keurig B-40 makes an excellent cup of coffee very quickly everyone can have the type of coffee of their choosing.  With this machine, my mother, who only drinks decaf, can enjoy a cup of decaf coffee while I have the Nantucket blend and my son drinks Hazelnut.  I have joined Keurig's coffee club and get nice discounts on the prepackaged K-cups.  I also purchased the reusable filter so I can buy less expensive coffee and make it in the Keurig.  I admit, the K-cups are very convenient and I rarely use the reusable filters unless someone has given me coffee as a gift.  To make a cup of coffee with the K-cups, simply raise the handle and set the K-cup in the holder.  When you lower the handle, the cup is punctured both top and bottom.  Press the brew button and out comes hot, fresh coffee.  Raise the handle and drop the used cup in the trash.  No messy grounds and it doesn't even drip.  The reusable filter isn't quite as convenient, but if you're worried about the cost of the prepackaged coffee, buy a couple filters so you don't have to wash it out after each cup.
The Keurig B-40 also brews tea and you can buy a large variety of flavors from Keurig.  I've also just placed a tea bag in the filter and brewed a quick cup that way.  The advertising also lists hot cocoa, but don't be fooled.  The hot cocoa is really a cup of hot water that you add hot cocoa mix to.
Overall, I love this coffee machine.  My Mr. Coffee has been banished to a dark corner while I enjoy perfect cup after perfect cup of delicious coffee.