ID: B000CC91E2-R30EOOFID0HBKF-A30XJD08JER43V
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Black-Decker-CCV900-Dustbuster-CycloPro
ReviewerID: A30XJD08JER43V
ReviewerName: Life "Lifefx"
Date: July 20, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Simply Awesome Hand-Held With A Handy Slim Nose!
Content:
I bought the  Black & Decker CCV900 Dustbuster CycloPro Corded Cyclonic Vac  and its much-praised cordless  sibling, the Black & Decker 18-Volt Pivoting-Nose Cordless Handheld Vacuum.  Although both are very, very good, I give the edge to the corded model.  
I despise dust, crumbs, dead bugs, hair strands that have shed, grass or leaves that may stick to stilettos, little things that visiting babies find then fling to the floor, and all other mysterious (and possibly unseen) things flopping and dropping from the air to hard wood floors, lovely forest green short-fiber carpets and white sheepskin rugs. You know! Wheewhh!
I have had two of the metallic blue corded hand vacs. The first one was great, but the second never picked up unless you took the hose loose and used it moving over the carpeting half-dollar spot by half-dollar spot. How tiresome! Then I got the corded bright yellow hand vac that was a good sucker but so hard to maneuver across carpeting that I seriously contemplated physical therapy for both arms! I had another, forgettable, hand vac that stopped holding a charge two weeks or so after purchase. How utterly yukky!
I feel this Black & Decker CCV900 Dustbuster CycloPro Corded Cyclonic Vac can easily topple the over-promoted Dyson Animal, hands-down. I think the only thing impressive about Animal is the name! I came to see it as nothing more than an over-priced, glorified, purple, hard plastic broom!
This compact CycloPro, like its sibling, is utterly divine!  
The long suction nose holds the crevice tool on top. If it is not  snapped carefully and properly in place, it will slip out its holder. I think it was positioned there for handiness and smoothness of design, but it has to be snapped in just right. 
The long nose and, if needed, the crevice tool can grab up every little critter around the edges of armoires, partner desks, scanners, shredders, pool tables, escritoires, books stacked on the floor, car seats, every where! 
And, there is a dark, translucent dust bin, so dust - carrying nasty, voracious mites - can be watched whirling around as CycloPro picks up every little, itty-bitty anything that I don't want around! Splendiferous!
Emptying the CycloPro is easy. Simply push the little release, turn the vac on its side over a trash bin, and pull the door free.
Hanging the charger is no problem. I did it myself!
If you must deal with dust and the ikky stuff it carries, do yourself a favour and get one!