ID: B000GTR2F6-R1XEGWIH6EWMUN-A1SCCQLSZNN91N
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Platinum-Single-Cup-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: A1SCCQLSZNN91N
ReviewerName: Gretchen Campbell
Date: February 8, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very Happy Customer! Worth Every Penny!
Content:
After hemming and hawing for nearly a year about this machine, I finally bit the bullet and bought the Keurig Platinum last month, after I didn't get one for Christmas (as I was hoping). I was actually mostly happy with the brewer I'd had for less than a year, a Capresso with thermal carafe, but as a 1-2x/week coffee drinker, I wanted something that would give me just one cup, and something that would taste exactly the same each time. Oh yeah, and something my husband would use. He drinks more coffee than me and in the almost 12 months we used the Capresso, he never once made coffee. (Men. Sheesh.)
The first single-cupper I'd tried was the Tassimo. Eh on taste, but I liked the novelty. I first set my sights on the Keurig Breville... surely at that price point the coffee would taste better than the Tassimo, and I sure liked how it looked. Then last summer I had the opportunity to try a few cups of different coffees in a Keurig B-60. I liked it! But I still had that Capresso, which worked just found and made great coffee. It wasn't until this Christmas, when I stayed at my mom's for a week and got the chance to play with her B-40 that I decided I must.have.my.own. 
In deciding which model to buy, I considered the Breville, B-40, and B-60, but ultimately decided on the B-70 Platinum. The only turn-off that I'd experienced with my mom's B--40 was the noise factor. Not terrible -- much like the sounds of a machine that grinds it's beans just prior to brewing -- but I could just picture the look on my husband's face if I brought home a brewer that sounded like that. Luckily, the new B-70 has some sort of Quiet Brew Technology -- it's true, it purrs like a kitten! -- and that's not an issue. I would have liked to spend a little less that I did on my B-70, but in the end I decided that I needed more brew-size options than the lower models offered. My husband prefers to drink his coffee out of tea cups so I needed that size. Moreover, I am newly obsessed with iced coffee. The new B-70s offer an additional cup size (4 oz, I think) that allow you to fill your tumbler with ice then brew the coffee (or tea, if you choose) in that 4 oz concentrated setting and, voila, you've got fabulous iced coffee. I might have been tempted to consider the Breville if it had offered the iced drink option (I'm pretty sure it doesn't) or the Quiet Brew (it definitely doesn't, not presently at least), but thankfully those lack of options kept it out of the running. The B-70 might not be as pretty, but it still looks nice.
So how has the Keurig changed my life? Well, I think I've become addicted to coffee. It's that good. I only drank coffee before b/c I liked the taste -- I am impervious to the effects of caffeine -- and the pain of dealing with making a pot of coffee resulted in me making it only occasionally. Since bringing home the Keurig a month ago, I've had coffee daily. Mostly I drink it with half a glass of milk and a smidge of creamer, using the iced coffee option. It is freaking devine. My husband has at least a cup a day as well, and *I* don't have to make it for him. 
Next stop is one of those K-cups that I can put my own coffee in. Now that I'm drinking more coffee, I'm spending more, so it would be prudent to at least try using my own coffee. 
Bottom line.... I love this machine and am so glad I finally bought it!