ID: B00002N5W8-RKPT8WNQY0GJW-A56KMES8P0SQ0
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Mr-Heater-Double-Tank-Top-Propane
ReviewerID: A56KMES8P0SQ0
ReviewerName: N. Cooper
Date: January 25, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Good reliable heater
Content:
I have had one of these for several years.  I bought a refurbished unit from another vendor for heating up my shop or garage.  It is a great little heater.  
The only problem I have ever noticed is one of the burners takes 10-12 minutes to get to where the whole surface glows.  Until then there is a gradually diminishing small flame at the top.  It is probably some issue with that particular burner, but I never thought it a big enough issue to do anything about it.  
A minor inconvenience is as mentioned elsewhere once both burners are turned on you can't turn off just one.  However with a little practice and forethought it is usually not a big problem because, the High, Medium and Low control adjusts both so you can turn both down to the lowest setting.  The upside is you effectively have 6 different heat levels, 3 with one of the burners on and 3 with both on.  
Another minor inconvenience mentioned elsewhere is you need to use a long match or lighter to safely light this model.  This is true and to be expected from a bare bones utility heater.
Also mentioned elsewhere is the short hose causing stress. I found this can be solved by, as your mounting it on the tank feed the hose from the inside out through one of the hand hold openings around the end of the U shaped tank top and back in to the tank connector.  Then mount the unit between the hand holes.  At first this may sound like it is counter productive because, it makes a longer path for a short hose.  That is true but the issue is really that the other way the hose is asked to make a bend that is too tight, not that it is too short to reach the connector.  See picture added to listing.
I would feel I need to comment on a safety issue mentioned in another review.  There is NO CARBON MONOXIDE POISONING RISK with this type of heater.  The risk without ventilation is THE OXYGEN WILL BE USED UP.  That can kill you but not in the same way and is much easier to deal with.  The main byproduct from combustion with propane is water.  That is the other issue you need to be aware of.  A fair amount of moisture is added to the air when the propane is burned.  Unlike most types of heat which usually lower the humidity because warm air can hold more water than cold, in a tight structure burning propane can add sufficient moisture to push the humidity up to where condensation occurs causing various issues.  
Both the moisture and oxygen depletion issues are of course worse in a small tight area.  My shop is a fairly large very tight area and I deal with both of the above issues by using this heater to get it up to temperature quickly and then switch to a smaller electric heater along with pulling some heat from the house it is attached to.  
The cost of operation is very reasonable because it is designed to go on a 20 LB or larger tank.  I get my 20 LB tank filled for $10-13 which is not too bad for the amount of heat that produces and much cheaper operation than the units that use the non-refillable 1 LB tanks.  
Like most things there are issues to be aware of. This is a very reliable heater, that when used properly in appropriate conditions works very well.