ID: B000BXKIE4-R1OO0XYV9QIQ1H-A1GBP0BTXPLW60
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL-7020B-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A1GBP0BTXPLW60
ReviewerName: A. C. Goerwitz "Happy Lovejoy"
Date: March 28, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good, not great
Content:
Five years ago I purchased a similar model (an O2), and this one is better, but still has flaws.
The O2 had a flimsy wand.  This one isn't as flimsy, though only time will tell whether it will hold up.  The O2's cord could have been a few feet longer, and the O3's cord isn't better, but it's still longer than many other vacuums' cords.
The O2 was overall a simpler unit.  This one has too many buttons that I keep accidentally pressing on the wand handle.  Although overall it has a high-tech feel, with lots of cool lights, to me the O3's complexity just means more stuff that can break.  My 02 eventually but the dust after sparking when I hit the on switch, then smelling bad (burned out motor, probably).  But well before then the wand showed a lot of wear and tear, and had started falling apart (up by the handle).  I kinda wish the O3 had been designed just to be light and hold up.
One thing I like better about the O2 is that the hose attached towards the front of the canister.  I would also prefer if the hose attached nearer the front on the O3, because the way it attaches (up top) makes the hose bend funny when I pull on it (essentially every time I advance forward), and the unit as a result doesn't move as nicely.  Also, I'm sure the hose won't wear as well as the O2's because of how it bends every time I tug on it.  I dearly hope Electrolux rethinks how it's engineered this aspect of the O3.
Why did I buy an O3 (Oxy3)?  Partly just because it was on sale at Amazon.  I also bought it because it's small, and easy to move around.  It also doesn't have all its attachments inside the canister (which makes the canister smaller and easier to move).  The O3 also has a nice, wide floor brush, which I use a lot.  I don't understand how people can use large rug beating attachments (or worse yet upright vacuums).  Such units don't let you reach under anything.  Also, rug beaters tear up nice oriental rugs with tassels and edges (or really anything but wall to wall carpeting).  So I typically use the floor brush, which as noted (on this unit) is a foot wide, or more.
When I looked at canister vacuums that were rated highly by Consumer Reports at Sears, the brushes (which all fit inside the canister, making the canister too big) were tiny.  I thought it was a very silly design unless you're using the vacuum with the rug attachment most of the time (in which case, why not just buy an upright?).
We'll just have to see how this one holds up.
So far so good.
Hope somebody at Electrolux is reading this and makes changes.  It's a good product for my lifestyle and ways of cleaning the house.