ID: B000VDQ38E-R2S7LH97SQEQLX-A2D1T6Z5EYJ7WY
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A2D1T6Z5EYJ7WY
ReviewerName: Robert J. Rudock "CleverCynic"
Date: September 3, 2008
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: I'm apparently disgusting...
Content:
I bought this thing "blind" and couldn't be happier. I went to Lowe's to try and find those rubber brooms the Aussie on TV assured me I could get for $10 a piece and couldn't find any. I went to the vac section just to gaze upon the glory of the Dyson Animal I had read about but had no intention of purchasing until after the lotto numbers were revealed at the end of the week. There I saw this vac for $149 with pet pictures all over it. I figured what the heck, the black lab hairs were driving me crazy on my tan/beige rug and my upright bagless Eureka (complete with headlight) was just pushing it around even though I figured it was a pretty good vac. The instructions really were terrible, I could have had it together in a hot minute but took 10 or so due to figuring it out. You do step one, then like step 5 says to "do this" before you do step one. Anyway, I got it together and said out loud "prepare to be dissappointed". I certainly was not. I ran it the length of my pathetic living room twice and the stupid container was completely full. I thought this was some kind of joke, but a really promising one. Emptying it was very easy and finding my spot on the carpet was easy since it looked like a freshly mowed lawn when the rest of the grass was a foot tall. It handled the rest with ease and I ended up with 5 canister-fulls with the hall and living room. Now I had a dalmatian that died over a year ago of old age, and I swear his hair was in that can. Yes it's loud and the attachments have some awkwardness, but darn it this thing WORKS and that is all I really wanted. Also, I don't know if it is some sort of trick of leverage or what, but you'd swear this thing is at least partially self-propelled. It doesn't burn rubber or lerch forward or anything but it definitely seems to glide forward with ease. Power button is on front which is odd, but really who cares. I see a LOT of user error possibilities with the one-star people, and others have almost certainly gotten a bad specimen they should have simply exchanged, but this thing should really impress you... if it doesn't then exchange it because the majority of reviews are absolutely true.