ID: B00006C7HJ-R19ZSC82Y2E8XR-A2H8NP7I9LF6O8
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Vornado-VH2-Vortex-Heater
ReviewerID: A2H8NP7I9LF6O8
ReviewerName: B. Kline
Date: March 7, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 1.0
Title: I have a lot of experience with Vornado now ... (BAD)
Content:
I am writing this review because my current Vornado heater(s) ... that's
two of them failed within a week of each other, and after not that much
use.  When I got my first heater, I wrote a positive review, based on
when it was working even though they were expensive.
This one, pictured here, the VH2 failed because the red switch on top
started to cut in and out, and finally just refused to turn on.  I took
it apart but there was nothing I could do about it.
I had this heater for a bit over a year, and probably turned it on and
ran it for 60 days total.  I did not turn it off and on a lot, or abuse
it.  I was sitting near it one night and started to see it fail, it
cut in and out and stopped working.
Now, that would be one thing, but I have had 3 other Vornado heater
products too.  I like them when they are working.
I had two of the digital metal enclosure heaters.  I have had them
for a couple of years, and they both just stopped working.  I unplugged,
waited and replugged - no luck - WITH EITHER HEATER.  I also did not 
like these because they had a big blue LED on top that would light
up an entire room.  Anyway, the one that just failed I think the
thermostat broke, the other one just refused to turn on.
Now ... the reason I liked Vornado to begin with was the earlier
model of the VH2.  I had a grey one, and it is still working like
a champ.  If I could buy another one I would in a heartbeat, but I
am never buying another Vornado product ever after the string of
failures I have had with their new heaters.
What I liked about the one that worked was that it is quiet, and
reliable, and never got too hot, as in hot enough to catch anything
on fire.  They had to mess with the heaters, to jazz them up with
digital this and that, and fancy enclosures and cheaper components,
and they lost track of their orginal intent, to make a safe
reliable product.
I am not sure what else to recommend, because I want to like the
Vornados, but I will not chance it at these overinflated prices.
Take these things apart and they have very few cheap components,
so what is the reason they are so incredibly expensive.  A plastic
housing, thin metal heating elements, a fan, and some switches, and
it should take less than 5 minutes to assemble.
A friend of mine has a comparable heater to the VH2 that she got
at a rummage sale for $5 that circulates back and forth and is
very similar, but without an accurate thermostat - but it's nice,
it works and it was cheap.  I'd like to say I trust the Vornado more,
because I used to leave the house frequently with it on because I
trusted that it would not start a fire ... now with that component
failures I am not so sure.
If anyone can recommend another brand of heater, please let me know.
Until I hear and see different with some reasonable prices I will
stay away from Vornado and recommend you to do the same.
I am talking 3/4 failures within two years and an average price of
$100 per heater.  That is not a best buy by any stretch.