ID: B00006F2MI-RLFIU8C7KFCYD-A1TAVZ8ZE0BPBQ
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Grind-Brushed-Chrome
ReviewerID: A1TAVZ8ZE0BPBQ
ReviewerName: B. Moore
Date: March 31, 2006
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 3.0
Title: Smaller Package than ealier model, but does not make coffee quite as good
Content:
I had the generation of grind and brew before this.  The older model was huge and looked like a vw beetle. Cuisinart made one compromise in an effort to compact the size of this thing which is the biggest shortcomming of the product. They made the new model with a basket filter instead of a cone filter.  The result of this is that the coffee does not taste quite as good with this model.  I like my coffee strong and I have found myself filling the grinder to the brim to have as rich of a cup as before (I am using more coffee beans by at least 15% and if you are considering this you are proabably paying $10+ for 12oz - you can add up the waste).  If you like your coffee strong go with something with a cone filter.  Cleaning this model is eaiser than before.  Unless you are a neat freak you can make 3 of 4 pots without affecting performance before having to clean the grinder assembly as moisture will cause a build up of grounds and beans.  The thermal carafe is wonderful in that it keeps your coffee warm for hours.  The grinder is quieter than before, but is still very loud.  There is a clear plastic window in the top lid that develops stress fractures/cracks over time that I believe come from the grinder's vibrations (it did this on the old one as well).  If you are a coffee hound, the sound of the grinder automatically going off in the morning will have a pavlovian effect on you and help you get going in the morning.  I would not buy this again unless they change to a cone filter and do something sensible like replace the clear window over the grinder with something to insulate the sound of the grinder.  Style is the strongest reason for anyone to buy this coffeemaker.  It would be a sensible purchase for the infrequent coffee drinker who wants a grind and brew otherwise you will be better off spending you money on something else.