ID: B00008NRTZ-R2G9KXYTBM05N3-A2QOIQDXMHQCW7
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-6900-DigiPro-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A2QOIQDXMHQCW7
ReviewerName: K-Nasty
Date: March 22, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 2.0
Title: I've owend my Bissell DigiPro for over a year...
Content:
And I have pretty much liked every single thing about it until last week.  Let me start by saying I did not buy this vacuum here, I bought it at Walmart.  My last upright vacuum broke and I was adamant about getting a canister vacuum due to hardwood and carpeted floors, light weight, and easier carrying up stairs.  (The uprights are so damn heavy and my parents loved their Bissell canister vac from the 90's)  I didnt really have any issues with this vacuum over the past year and a half.  We have dogs and cats, no issues with sucking power or clogs.  We have hardwood, carpet, tile, and stairs...no issues with ANY of those surfaces.  With this vacuum I practically threw my brooms away.  HOWEVER...last week my Bissell broke.  I knew it was going to happen, I could tell.  Certain pieces on this vacuum are FLIMSY AND PLASTIC when they should be metal, etc.  The vacuum broke where the "Pole" meets the "Foot" (foot meaning the flat part where the brushes are).  I wasnt vacuuming under anything, or around anything.  It wasnt "knocked" or "hit" I was just vacuuming low carpet and the plastic literally snapped.  It snapped below where the pole connects to the foot so the cable that connects them is still in tact but the pole and the foot have sharred plastic around them and no tape or glue will put it back together.  Called Bissell and was told I needed to replace the Pole for $43.99 and the foot for $64.99, since both pieces obviously snapped apart, totaling $108.98.  I just dont know that it's worth it.  I wasnt blown away by this vacuum, although I had no real issues with it, my old upright did clean a little better.  I will take my $108.98 and go buy a crap vacuum from Walmart...since they all seem to be disposable these days anyway.  BISSELLS NUMBER: [...]