ID: B00005IBX9-RJ3ADUQQS9AE8-A1JTC97X5MFB4M
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1200-Central-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A1JTC97X5MFB4M
ReviewerName: S. Trudgen
Date: February 15, 2010
Helpful: 0 of 5
Rating: 1.0
Title: Stupidest coffee maker ever?
Content:
After searching high and low to find the best replacement for my 10yr old Braun coffee maker, I bought this Cuisinart DCC-1200.  I'd read a lot of reviews that mentioned bad experiences, but I discounted them based upon what appeared to be a high quality unit.     After a week of use and irritation, I've unplugged this heap of junk and had my Braun repaired for about the same price as this one cost (money well spent).    Why is the Cuisinart stupid?    1) the controls on front are difficult to see and not logical for use.  2) the clock is too small, unlit and set back too far to read.  3) the hole to poor the water in is too small and hard to see.  4) the high setting on the warming plate is too high and burns the coffee. 5) the unit will start brewing and filling the coffee reservoir even if you've forgotten to put the pot in.  6) the water pattern is a small hole in the center of cone-shaped coffee reservoir, so only a portion of your coffee actually gets brewed and makes weak coffee. 7) if you partially open the top while brewing, water drips down onto the heating plate.  8) unless you completely open the top after brewing, the moisture under the top will drip down the back onto your counter. 9) the controls on the front will get all steamed up during brewing. 10) the underside of the top has poor ventilation and never seems to dry, so if you brew a pot on Friday and leave for the weekend, when you come back on Monday you'll find a musty mess of grounds to clean.  11) the pot feels fairly solid, but it seems to bend with a full 12cups in it and has an area around the rim that doesn't drain when you wash it out.   12) I'm sure there's more that I've missed...from the many reviews, it will likely die within a year.   But mine won't, cuz I'm back to my 10yr old Braun.