ID: B00006JL08-RJM0XXSB0EJXK-A17BUUBOU0598B
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Braun-KF580-AromaDeluxe-TimeControl-Coffemaker
ReviewerID: A17BUUBOU0598B
ReviewerName: Mark "Technology, Music and Movies"
Date: November 7, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 3.0
Title: The Braun KF580 - Standard Design With Common Quality Control Issues And A High List Price
Content:
The Braun KF580 AromaDeluxe 10-Cup TimeControl Coffemaker may be an option for those looking for a drip coffee maker in this white color to match their kitchen set up.  However, the problems I have found with other Braun models are still present here.  Those who get a good model may think it's one of the best, and those who get a lemon will be disappointed.  Considering the high list price, this kind of inconsistency is disappointing.
This product is just one of many Braun models that seems to be a re-badged version of the same product with only a few minor difference.  My search for a better coffeemaker continues. I originally tried the  Braun KF590 Impressions Digital 10-Cup Programmable Coffeemaker which is essentially the same model except for the black color and metal accents.  I have been trying to replace my Braun KF510-BK AromaDeluxe 10-Cup Coffeemaker, Black.  It's also just a basic drip coffee maker but has performed well.  The bottom line was that I needed a timer.  The 580 and 590 have a timer while the 510 doesn't.
Well for starters, I was shocked to see how similar all these models are.  In fact all the design elements are identical except for the front panel with the clock and buttons.  The 510 just has an red on/off switch there.  Clearly, Braun has been saving their research and development dollars for other things.  Looking at all their coffeemakers in this family makes it clear they are sticking to the "if it aint broke, don't fix it" approach.
The only difference between these models are cosmetic, with the different colors and stainless steel accents.  None of those things should alter the performance issues with the coffee maker.
The timer did work as expected.  It's pretty intuitive, I believe that anybody could time it if they have used others.  Still, I read the whole manual, as I always do, to make sure I got everything right.  Nice features include the ability to change the auto-shutoff time.
But despite this tested design, there were some downsides. For starters, the plastic tab that keeps the reservoir closed seemed to be made from a slightly cheaper plastic than my old Braun.  The result?  The first 590 I bought had a defective door that flung open at night, and I woke up to spilled hot water and no coffee.  Very annoying.  I tried taping it closed, but this didn't instill confidence in me for Braun's quality control.
Ok, I can give them the benefit of the doubt and say not every unit will have that defect.  Needless to say, I had to return mine.  But in the end I caved and eventually had that one replaced.  The replacement was slightly better but still had some issues.  Now after trying the white version, the 580, I have had to deal with the same problems.  In addition to the front bin opening, the timer clock acts flaky and sometimes turns the coffee maker on when you are just trying to set the timer.  Very very annoying.
But after realizing all these models are replicas of the 510 with a clock and timer added, I had to wonder why the list price was $80 to 90?  This is just too much for a basic coffee maker with a timer.  The 510 is listed at $50 and sells for $40, which also seems high.  Still, did they think adding a timer justified $40 or $50 more?  Even the 590's prevailing price of $60 seems borderline high to me, but I could accept it if this unit was without flaws.  The 580 sells for a little less, but can still only be purchased at a discount.
There are some minor flaws that seem the same as my old Braun.  The reservoir does leak water if you move it at all after brewing, which is a minor annoyance.  The steam does seem to escape from the top during brewing.  And the carafe is designed so you have to pour very slowly or it will spill.  Another minor issue, not a huge knock.
Still, after dealing with this first hand, I think there are better values to be had.  For the price of this unit, I can get a low end grind and brew unit that will make fresher coffee.  
  
All of the units I have tested look nice enough.  As long as you know what you are getting, this might fit your needs.
Once again not a bad unit, but perhaps a little overpriced.  And check yours well to make sure it's not defective.
Enjoy.