ID: B0007Y79AI-R16HAAS0UW0E9I-A2SW9DJS5Y47NL
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Black-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A2SW9DJS5Y47NL
ReviewerName: Mark Glazerman
Date: November 3, 2005
Helpful: 50 of 52
Rating: 5.0
Title: Small But Perfectly Formed !!
Content:
Ok... This might be the first iPod that I've owned but I've been an admirier of Apple's work for some time. I have several friends with various generations of the original iPod and always loved the combination of art and technology that goes into them.
I had been the owner of a Sony mp3 player for about 2 years and until this summer had no reason to think about replacing it. 256meg of memory seemed enough for me and it was small too. What more did I need really ?? However, over the summer my trusty sony got washed and so it was time to look for something to replace it. 
In the run up to my birthday Apple launched the Nano and I instantly fell in love with it. I have no real need for 60 gigabytes of storage but knew that 256 meg was limiting the amount of music I could carry around with me. Even the 2gig version which held 500 songs would be fine for me. I added a Nano to my birthday wish list and waited !!
Last Friday I opened up the sleek box to feast my eyes on my Nano for the first time. Even though I'd read pages of reviews about the player, I was still amazed at the size (or lack of size) of this unit. It's just tiny !! Not so small that you'd lose it but small enough that when It's in your pocket you can forget its there. The screen is so bright and clear and the sound !!.... WOW. For such a small player, it certainly packs quite a punch in the volume department. Full volume would certainly lead to hearing damage after a short time.
The iTunes software that comes with it is easy to install and easy to use. I was soon burning my CD's onto my PC with ease. A 10-12 track CD takes around 2-3 minutes to load onto the PC but uploading those same songs onto the iPod takes a fraction of that time. Infact on day 1 I loaded about 450 songs onto my player and it can't have taken more than 5 or 6 minutes. The product specs say that the 2gig version will hold 500 songs. Well I've got about 560 on mine at the moment and there is still about 250 meg free. I'm sure that the actual storage capabilities depend on the length of the songs you're loading.
I'd read lots about the problems with early versions of the Nano with regard to failing screens and scratches etc. but guess what ??... stuff gets scratched and damaged, thats just how it is. if you;re silly enough to think that anything will stay as pristine as the day it was bought, then you're bound to be dissappointed. I will be buying a case for mine (probably an Agent18 hard case) because I want to keep it in the best shape possible. I'd reccommend others do the same, not because it will fall apart if you don't but because when you're spending $200 on something, you want to look after it !!
I'm not going to tell anyone that the iPod Nano is the best value mp3 player on the market. There are plenty of others that have it beat hands down in terms of storage and price. However, I am willing to say that It's probably the sexiest mp3 player around and has the competition beat when it comes to looks. Add to that the fact that 500+ songs is probably more than enough for most users, that the quality of the sound is excellent and that (sor far) battery life has been up there with most of the others on the market, this really is an awesome piece of kit and well worth considering if you don't need the ability to carry around 25,000 songs !!
Bottom line... if you want a great looking player that is very capable and also has some neat additional functions that most of the others don't have then get out there and get yourself a Nano. If you want something thats gonna hold thousands and thousands of songs and withstand you throwing it around all the time, look elsewhere !!
I love mine
Mark