ID: B0007QKMR8-R3ERWO168C1N7Q-A1J93EGDYK0IWA
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-Camera
ReviewerID: A1J93EGDYK0IWA
ReviewerName: Patrick D. Goonan "www.meaningful-life.us"
Date: July 8, 2006
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: Compact, affordable, improved w some great unique features
Content:
The first thing that impressed me about this camera was how well thought out it was in terms of size, position of controls and practicality.  I purchased the version with the 18-55 mm EFS zoom lens and was impressed how light the whole unit was without seeming flimsy.  I'm also 6"0" tall and have fairly large hands, but I don't find this camera to small to handle at all.
I don't want to repeat a lot of the things other reviewers have said, so I'll make some additional observations that will hopefully add value to what others have said.  One of these is a comment about the fact that the camera is faster than the original Rebel due to the 8 MP CMOS and DIGIC II processing image.  This gives it higher resolution, faster recovery time between shots and almost instant startup time when compared with the original Rebel.  I found the camera overall to be a bargain considering its performance and the fact that they included a good lens.
Two modes that I appreciated were the While Balance Bracketing and monochrome mode for working with black and white photography.  The bracketing allows you to automatically take three images for every shot with different white balancing settings.  Given that I can erase the pictures I don't like, I think this is a great feature.  I also like that I can experiment with black and white photography.
Another interesting feature of the camera is the CloseUp mode.  It works at wide angle settings and at 55 mm as well.  When you use it at 55 mm it magnifies the image and you can focus in as close as 6 inches in order to capture detail in flowers or whatever your subject is.  This opens up a lot of possibilities for some interesting shots that would otherwise be difficult.
In short, this is a lot of camera for the price.  I am very pleased with my purchase and pictures can be blown up very large at 8 MP resolution.  
While I haven't tried it yet, I'm interested in experimenting with some astrophotography using this camera.  Given its light weight, small size and accessible controls, I think it might be excellent for some astronomy applications where you need to piggy back a camera on a telescope.