ID: B0000SWAC8-RW4X82DBKGHDM-A2QKQBVH1R5S1J
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL6988D-Oxygen3-Canister-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A2QKQBVH1R5S1J
ReviewerName: Barb Forbish "The Queen of Everything"
Date: March 3, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: tidbits you might want to know...
Content:
it might be that i was "power head" deprived for several months till budget allowed, but this puppy has great power! on all 3 carpet heights, the vac all but moves on its own which equates to GREAT pick up even in this high traffic plus animal home!
now for those tidbits: i waited a week to write this so i'd have several uses to base my comments on. don't know exact length of cord, but you should plan on switching outlets often. we live in old Victorian with LR, DR, kitchen & entry on main floor; cord only reached 1/2 way into DR from LR. the "tool caddy" mentioned is in the wand; only holds the dusting brush & crevice tool and the brush has a tendency to fall out - no space for the upholstery brush (which has "hard" rubber fingers instead of brush - it is great on stairs!)or the floor brush which is VERY wide and makes cleaning go quickly. this is important, as in my opinion, while the power head is magic on all carpet heights, it's not good on hard surfaces. although none of the attachments have a male/female connection, they fit securely. the extension on the wand doesn't add a lot of length and, if you apply a tad of pressure, can pop down a notch. knew there wasn't an on/off switch on the wand when i purchased it, but am surprised how much i miss that feature. also, the hose doesn't rotate where it plugs into vac body. there is what i'd call a design flaw that i forsee a possible problem with; on the power head, the cord that provides the power is connected directly over the lever you tap with your foot to lower the wand ~
all that being said, i'm still happy with the vac - is it my dream vac? no, but since drilling holes in plaster for a built in system isn't in the cards, this will do fine. and, don't worry about springing for paid shipping even if you're in a hurry - i went the free route and mine shipped the day after i placed the order and arrived the next day.