ID: B000N3YBNQ-R2C4VT5LYRLKI5-A2DHC32JQEYX5W
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL5020A-Intensity-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A2DHC32JQEYX5W
ReviewerName: Scott Walton
Date: January 5, 2009
Helpful: 11 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Vac, needs wheel adjustment - EASY!
Content:
I just got this vac and it seems to work very well, right out of the box.  It needed no assembly, which both surprised and pleased me.
However, it was VERY stiff to push like it was a self propelled without the transmission working, or like the parking brake was still on a little.  THERE'S A VERY SIMPLE FIX: just pop off the hubcaps with a very small screwdriver or butter knife (don't tell your mom) underneath is a metric Allen bolt.  I only had SAE Allens and a 7/64 did the trick.  Simply loosen it 1/16th to 1/4 turn, just till the wheel turns freely, and you're done.  Voila!
The bag is small and will fill up quickly.  Full, the bag will only measure about 5" x 4" x 4".  I'm just going to vacuum up cheerios and cookie crumbs in the children's church between services, so I'm not too concerned about it but I could not use it for my main vacuum; not with 4 children and a dog.  I'd likely have to change the bag every 2nd or 3rd time I did the whole house (just a guess).
It folds and unfolds nicely and is easy to store.  The cord storage is very convenient.  It uses the toothed style belt Electrolux is famous for so it should work until it actually breaks.  I don't think it will stretch enough to fail.  It's made like a car's belt, with non-stretch "cables" inside.  Pretty cool design. Oh, and the color and texture of the body are nice too.  It reminds me of the Corvette's Daytona Sunset Orange.  It seems pretty well built.  Definitely better than the $60-$90 cheapies from the big box stores.  Everything is made of plastic these days but this seems to be made of good plastic, if you know what I mean.
I would recommend it IF the MFG Description and all these Personal Reviews seem to indicate that it will meet YOUR personal needs. (remember the VERY small bag?)  Personally I'm still very happy my big old tank Kirby.  It's not perfect but it works great and will likely last as long as I do.  ;^)