ID: B000FTLSR0-R3J6WQ26D9OW4Y-A3492VK4ALBLPF
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-Digital-Reduction-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A3492VK4ALBLPF
ReviewerName: Kane Cheung "xy1981ca"
Date: September 4, 2006
Helpful: 31 of 35
Rating: 4.0
Title: Rooting for the Underdog
Content:
I've come to learn that camera selection is a preference and that is absolute. The K100D came highly recommended by (biased) Pentax owners. Every Canon and Nikon (also biased) owners sworn by their own brands. My roommate and his brother own Canons, a Rebel XT and a 30D. Compared to either one, the Pentax loses hands down to many aspects. However, I wouldn't trade it for the Rebel (30D is another story). I love this camera for its personality (this isn't something I can explain or put on paper, it just has that "I don't give a crap" attitude to me). It can take pictures with mouth watering colors out of the box, it can take photos with natural colors for editing later and it does it with a familiar and pleasing SLR shutter sound. Out of all the DSLR's I've tried, the K100D snaps with the most confident sound. The K100D also feels the most film like DSLR I've held. Even though other cameras can take sharper pictures with less noise, have bigger buffers and faster AF, the K100D felt more natural to me. Because of this, I feel more comfortable in progressing my photography skills and feel more confident about taking more shots of my subjects. Mega pixels and ISO noise responses don't help in that department. And so even though the Rebel can beat the K100D on paper, my photos tell a different story. 
My 2 biggest complaints regarding this camera is its small buffer for continuous shots and the useful but poorly implemented post processing filters. Well, actually, it is because the auto white balance for indoor lighting is either yellow or blue, I sometimes need to use post processing to correct the pictures. The filters must be applied one setting at a time and cannot be applied to multiple photos. Even though I can do the same on a PC, it really renders the filters option a lot less useful. Aside from these negatives, the ergonomics and shake reduction make this camera a winner in my book. 
But to serious camera shoppers, don't pay so much attention to specs and actually try several cameras out before buying. It will make the decision making process a lot less confusing and painful.