ID: B000I1ZWRW-R120MZG56X1F7V-A2IVK0LG2YW74L
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-10-1MP-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A2IVK0LG2YW74L
ReviewerName: Slacker Mom
Date: August 31, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Canon Rebel XTi compared to Canon 40D
Content:
My husband and I regularly use the XTi and 40D, both with separate Canon 28-135mm f/3.5-5.6 zooms. (He always used the lens, so I caved and bought a 2nd one - it's a great all-around.) We've used these bodies for nearly a year now.
My husband has large hands, but he prefers the XTi body. I like the extra weight of the 40D, especially for a largish lens like the Canon 70-200mm L. The smaller XTi body fits better into holster bags. The off-on switch is easier to operate on the XTi - it sticks out, whereas the 40D's off-on switch is flatter to the body. The XTi's buttons and menus seem a bit more intuitive than the 40D, but has fewer options for people who like to fiddle with new things. I think the 40D battery lasts longer than the XTi, although that's an impression, not a scientific study.
(For the record, I had a chance to shoot with the Sony Alpha A200. That body feels cheaper to me in its build. And I think the lens choices are much better for Canon and Nikon.)
Looking at similar shots taken with identical lenses, it is very difficult to differentiate between the results. We are amateurs. My husband likes landscape mode, I like Av mode. One huge difference between these cameras is that the 40D has the ability to automatically set the ISO film speed in creative modes as well as point-and-shoot modes. When I'm using the XTi, I find it a pain to have to remember to check the ISO number and set it for conditions. For example, as it gets darker towards dusk, you might want to set the ISO to 400 rather than 100. (Remember: for both bodies, the ISO setting is automatic for basic modes like "landscape," but I shoot mostly in Av mode.) 
Another interesting difference is the sky. When the XTi takes a picture of, say, a sunset in landscape mode, the sky is rich and red while the rest of the shoot is too dark. If I use landscape mode (or Av, for that matter) with the 40D, it adjusts things so that the sky is always washed out or white in order to make the rest of the shot visible. It often washes out a blue sky to white as well, even shooting Av mode at aperture 22. So if I want to get that sky color (at the expense of everything else too dark,) I have to point at sky only, press shutter halfway for exposure, and then recompose the shot. Then the picture turns out like the XTi. (I know, I know - probably need to buy a graduated neutral density filter, but I am so lazy and so cheap.)
Something else to consider is that the accessories for these two cameras are not compatible. Although the CompactFlash cards are the same, the remote switch for the 40D doesn't work with the XTi, the batteries and chargers are not interchangeable, etc. This makes the pair less than perfect backups for one another, and more stuff to haul on a trip. 
For the price, I think the XTi is a better bargain than the 40D, although I suspect it's a lot like my brain: I'm only using the 40D at 18% of it's true capacity! Although I would still choose the 40D over the XTi, my husband prefers the XTi. For people who don't do weird things like reset the white balance or shoot in raw, the XTi is a superb choice - it's just an outstanding deal now that the prices have dropped even further. If you're not a real gadget nerd, I'd recommend buying the Xti, taking the money you save over the 40D and putting it towards a great lens.