ID: B000FFWGN4-R14J1FOLEP3BD8-A3VWPL72GGOBSO
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-Lift-2dOff-Revolution-Pet-37602
ReviewerID: A3VWPL72GGOBSO
ReviewerName: Jeannie K. "xmas fanatic"
Date: July 9, 2007
Helpful: 11 of 11
Rating: 4.0
Title: 2nd Time User!
Content:
Like some of the other reviews I did a lot of reading about this vacuum before purchasing.  I wanted to give it 5 stars, but there is no perfect cleaning machine out there!  It seems there has to be a few "flaws" with any vacuum, but I LOVE this vacuum.  The first time I used I wanted to write a review, but I thought I better wait 'til I used it again.  I have a purebred "ragdoll" cat which if you don't know has the soft long hair just like a rabbit so they shed a little different and I have had a very difficult time keeping up with him until now.  This vacuum picked up so much dust and cat fur the first time that it was Atrocious!!! Needless to say I was very impressed!!!  The second time I went to use it the Turbo brush was very weak.  I almost called Bissell to let them know, but I read the manual and cleaned everything and today it worked Wonderful again!!
As far as lightweight goes, anything feels light to me because I also own a Kirby, which has the suction of a Dyson, but is soooooo heavy and you have to do a lot to use the other attachments.
I have already vacuumed twice this week, which if you ask my hubby is a miracle in itself.
But in all honesty you cannot beat this vacuum for the price of $169.00!!!
I would definitely recommend this vac especially if you are on a tight budget.  Just keep it clean!! 
Just to update my review, I have used this vacuum several times and am still impressed with the suction and how much pet hair and dust I am picking up with it. The turbo brush is still working great!!
Hope this helps!!  
October 11th 2007 update:  I still cannot express the importance of keeping the filters, dirt compartments and the brushes clean.  Not everytime you vacuum, but about every other time or so.
I still think the vacuum is great for the money!!!
The suction is still as good as when I purchased this vacuum and the clean up is quick!!!