ID: B000LSYKP2-R1AYM1L8DTJBMX-A3GDPRVJFCI792
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-DLX900-12-Cup-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3GDPRVJFCI792
ReviewerName: harry12
Date: December 21, 2006
Helpful: 
Rating: 2.0
Title: I don't think so.
Content:
.
 Old coffee pot died. Wifey said she'd pick one up at Wally-World. I asked her to not come home with a programmable pot - we never use that feature. So Wifey comes home with the B&D DLX900 (it's programmable).
 First thing is wash the system. From this simple act I find that one must pour the water into the water reservoir SLO-O-O-O-O-LY! It seems that the carafe lip geometry cannot handle a 'regular' pour speed. After wiping up the counter and coffee pot, I tried to remove the brew basket. Now folks, I'm seventy-three years old. Been brewing and drinking coffee longer than most of you have been alive. I couldn't get that frelling basket off. Seems the side of the coffee maker body and the pivot hinge are not quite aligned. A flexing of the plastic parts is necessary for the basket to clear the body edges as it moves up or down, so it can swing into the 'brew' position or come off for servicing.
 Instructions call for one wash, I gave two. Thus I found another undocumented feature. After struggling to get the basket off, put in a new filter paper and replace the basket (while flexing the body parts), I opened the reservoir cover to slo-o-o-o-o-ly pour in a second flush. The cover has a nice large lip. When the cover is opened, the condensed moisture runs down the cover underside and collects in the lip. Close the cover and the trapped water conveniently flows onto your counter top.
 One more thing; when not making coffee, I push this maker back under the upper cabinets. To pull it back out,  the natural place to grab the unit brings my fingers into contact with the control buttons. You can get a warm welcome from this sucker when you're not expecting it. You better believe I now watch the controls like a hawk.
 I gave two stars as (after three months) the clock is still working and the DLX900 DOES make a good cup of coffee. I guess I'll keep this one but I sure wouldn't buy another!
.