ID: B000JO1IPI-R3KE7EWNX7B6LA-A1CT5KZKBYUCZX
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-classic-Black-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A1CT5KZKBYUCZX
ReviewerName: M.Aly
Date: November 29, 2007
Helpful: 7 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Ease of use has never been better
Content:
I was resisting myself in buying an Ipod for years. I was always having a PDA phone which I thought could do everything, why would I need an Ipod if I have an MP3 player in the same device which works as a small computer, and a phone. Then I needed an external storage, and I decided what the heck, if I buy a 160 GB which works as a USB storage, and in the same time an IPOD.
Waiting to receive the Ipod, I installed Itunes 7. The Ipod arrived finally, I got it out of the box, and WOW, it looked sleek, and neat. Worked out of the box. It cam with a USB connection and small headphone. I connected it to the PC and it started synchronized the library. When I started using the itunes, I understood what Steve jobs meant by his words"the ipod is all about software" The itunes SW is really powerful. It arranged all of my music collection with the smart playlists in a wonderful way. I tried to navigate through the menus, failed for a while, then I discovered the secret ! the navigation wheel which is just a touch pad like what's available in most noteboks. I know that this review might sound as if someone from the stone age is writing it, but hey, this is my first Ipod, and I never had a mac pc.
I started synchronizing 7 years of digital imaging. The SW is really powerful. The IPOD shows 32 thumbnails per screen, while scrolling with the touchpad. No need to arrange photos, as it sorts them by the date of photo, and folder.Really powerful
Then I started transferring the documents from my pc's and notebook for backup. Works very fast.
The device seemed a little bit fragile, but fortunately, I bought from Amazon a leather bag which came with a screen protector, and a belt clip.
I bought also an AV cable which plugs into the headphone jack, and connects to any TV where it can display the vidoes and photos.
Pros,
1- Huge storage
2- Easy to use Software, and really powerful
3- Battery charges fast, and lasts for 40 hours !
4- Fast performance, stable OS
cons
1- little bit bulky, and seems fragile
2- Does not come with an AV out cable
3- Internal speakers do not work for stored contents, only clicks and beeps. Alarms are useless.
4- File and folder security are not available on the device, just a pin for operating the whole device.
5- Itunes is not available in all countries to purchase content
6- Not all formats can be converted, however, I use total video converter to do conversion, faster and better.