ID: B00061UHDS-R1MCAD7HLLCECK-A2Z8WNTXFB228H
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Evolt-Digital-14-45mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A2Z8WNTXFB228H
ReviewerName: Sinister Minister
Date: May 25, 2005
Helpful: 173 of 184
Rating: 5.0
Title: Simply Amazing SLR
Content:
Hey guess who!? The sinister minister with yet another Digicam review!Well the E300 brings my camera count up to 5 and it may very well decrease it. I have by nature been very weary of the digital SLR's even though I sell tons of them every week, I have used the Canon XT and 20D, and the Nikon D70, consistantly. I have demonstrated them untill I can set one up in my sleep, and as fast and advanced as they may seem I just couldn't get past thier hefty price tags.But then here comes the E300, the first thing you notice about this camera is it looks like no other SLR on the market, it almost like a stealth camera! Size wise it compares pretty evenly with its counterparts, however it is somewhat lighter. Unlike the Rebel XT however this camera is built like a tank, with a good solid hand grip, and a textured metal body. That aside the main thing that attracted me to this camera was the fact that it uses Digital Zuiko lenses, each lens has its own processor! How cool is that! Not to mention the benefits you get when reading light or getting in focus. And to top that off they are sanely priced!! Now the most important feature of any camera my friends is what you buy it for, and that is pictures! The E-300 takes amazing pictures! It takes them fast, clear, and in just about any light situation you can think of. Oh and by the way? thats before you even start to mess around with the settings! Lets talk about a few: ISO: Neat feature the E300 has is a thing called "ISO Boost" you can switch the 2 highest ISO settings on or off (800 & 1600)! Noise in this department was pretty darn good until you shoot at 1600 then it gets a bit spooky, there aren't many cameras that don't (believe me) even the 20D you fantasize about takes a crappy shot with the ISO cranked up! Shutter speeds are about even with most other SLRs, and it even has an 8 minute "Bulb" mode (Hooray) but you have to hold the shutter button down (BOO).Menues: This camera has the coolest, and easiest to use damn menu system I have ever seen! I love it I was running thru things like I had owned the camera for years after just a few minutes, Nothing like the Canons (some things on those I still can't find!!) 8MP: my favorite resolution! I own 4 8MP cameras and I love every one of them! I well tell you now what I tell all my customers at Bestbuy anything over 8MP is a waste of money and time, I think even 8MP is more than most people need.5MP is average 6 is just stupid, 7MP is a good point and shoot. But SLRs need to be at least 8MP (hello Nikon?) The lens ranges work so well with that resolution anything less is really an injustice (I think).Scene Modes: Yes the E-300 has a ton of them (see spec's above) including the "Sunset Mode" (I love Nikon's)This is almost as good although a little too red at times. I haven't had the camera long so I haven't had the chance to run thru them all, but the ones I have used have all been right on the money. Speed: well okay this one has to go to the 20D, speed wise the E-300 is about par, but it's not gonna win any races about 4 frames at 2.5 sec for as long as the shutter is pressed.White balance features are excellent in this camera ranging from auto to 3000k all the way up to 7500k in addition to 4 spaces for custom settings (nice job Olympus).Full AF or manual focus modes as well as several combinations of the two! Flash: the E-300 probably has the best on board flash of any camera I have ever used, and without a doubt the most versitile as far as being able to control intensity, speed, etc. I actually like using it (Normally I hate flash photography). Huge selection of Image formats: this camera will save your pictures in at least 20 different files types and resolutions, not to mention you can completely edit Raw image files directly within the camera! Exsposure, contrast, sharpness the whole deal right on board. Battery life is excellent being as good as my F-828 at 230-220 minutes.Micro-drive capable, and I absolutely love the Zuiko lenses.I have to admit I never thought I would own an Olympus let alone one of thier SLRs, Olympus has a tendency to cut on quality when it comes to thier lower end models the people that own em love em. However I have always heard that Olympus high end cameras are among the best. After using the E-300 I would agree WOW!.This camera has so many other benifits and features that I can't go into here, so check your online review sources and make up your own mind. As I said I am a professional photographer and I sell cameras and aside from some bells and whistles, speed you'll never use, the E-300 is everybit as good a digital SLR camera as its Canon and Nikon counterparts (more so in some ways)The biggest being price!
I added another lens to mine and a Microdrive (4gb) and a Canon would have still cost me more, and I'd still be lost in those menus!Want my advice? Put the E-300 on your short list and decide based on picture and price, not speed. Weather its film or digital, photography has always been about the pictures, SLR's by nature take amazing photographs, is it really worth it to have to take on a second job just to pay for it!? I hope this helps somewhat, after I have used the camera a while I may offer an update, until then Happy shooting!