ID: B00004R936-RAF1LMU4R4NLH-AVOV5EELJPKGZ
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Melitta-MEMB1B-10-Cup-Coffeemaker-Black
ReviewerID: AVOV5EELJPKGZ
ReviewerName: Sushiboo "Sushiboo"
Date: April 23, 2006
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: The Little Pot That Can
Content:
After the mess of grinding beans separately I went for a grind and brew.  The first one wasn't very good then I found and fell in love with this one. Compact (as coffee makers go these days) it is easy to use and clean.  After years of use the top that latches over the bean housing broke.  For a year we put a can of cat food on top of it to latch it.  Finally fed up with the way that looked, I decided to buy another maker.  I looked everywhere (including Amazon) but couldn't find the same model - even on the Melitta website.  I gave up and reluctantly viewed my choices (few) and bought a Cuisinart.  ICK!  It was massive and what a hassle.  It was complicated, the grinder seemed to "glue" more grounds to the top and sides and downspout to the brew basket than went into brewing the actual coffee; it was difficult to clean both the grinder and brew basket, as well as reassemble them.  The coffee wasn't very good either. I had a small ground coffee explosion that due to the design made it virtually impossible to clean.  So, I returned the Cuisinart and drug my old broken machine up from the garage.  It was a while after that that the ability to pour coffee while it was still brewing finally gave out and I had to say "mea culpa" and consider a grinder and a machine.  Imagine my surprise to come on line at Amazon and find my beloved "little coffee maker that could."  And it was SIGNIFICANTLY cheaper than the Cuisinart and many others that don't even grind.  I was delighted to see so many reviews that confirmed what I felt I knew, that it was a great pot (yeah, it is a tad loud), easy to clean and great tasting coffee.  Unlike the Cuisinart you can choose your brew strength. And, it lasted --it gave many years of daily service before the latch gave out.  For several years my eldest son was a Starbucks coffee barista and even he admitted it made better coffee than their over-the-counter pots.  I highly recommend it for convenience, ease of cleaning and economy of space.  And oh yes, the good coffee!