ID: B000FFWGN4-R3EFQLJAWJBR0Y-A1PCEHJ0XVXK3H
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-Lift-2dOff-Revolution-Pet-37602
ReviewerID: A1PCEHJ0XVXK3H
ReviewerName: Roo
Date: February 15, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 1.0
Title: This Is The Worst Vacuum
Content:
This is the worst vacuum!
  Okay, I have never written a review before, but I wish I could have read this one before I purchased this vacuum.  I bought this Bissell in March 2007.  I bought it from Target for $169.  Target has a 90 day return policy, just in case you didn't know.  Well on day 91, the brush roller stopped turning.  Bissell sent me a replacement roller.  To make a very long story short, after having the brush roller burn out and stop turning four times, the vacuum being taken two times to the local service center and many Customer Service contacts later, Bissell finally says that they will send me a replacement machine.  They were originally going to just send me another replacement roller, again, until I had to play a little bit of hardball.
  This vacuum has had it easier than any of my previous vacuums.  I have only ever owned Hoovers before.  When researching this vacuum last year, the Hoovers weren't getting as good of reviews, but there had been a glowing review on this vacuum.  I decided to go ahead and give Bissell a try.
  I only have one dog and cat now, where my previous Hoovers had to deal with two dogs and two cats.  This Bissell has been pampered and dealt with MUCH more carefully than any of my previous Hoovers and it still keeps breaking.  Plus, it clogs up frequently despite cleaning out the filters, emptying the dust bin and cleaning out the roller very frequently.  And aside from being a pain, if you have allergies, this is the worst!  Seriously, we're not talking abour rocket science, we're talking about vacuuming.  It's not suppose to be such a challenge.
  When I first bought this machine, it seemed like it would be promising, but it quickly became a major pain.  Oh how I wish I would have just stuck with an inexpensive Hoover.  I'm vacuuming again with my old Hoover and it keeps getting the job done.  The only reason that it got replaced to begin with was because one dog had passed on and I thought that the Hoover might follow suit.  Next time I won't make that decision early and I'll only replace it once it stops working.
  I know that there are still some glowing reviews on this vacuum, but please, seriously consider all of the reviews before purchasing this vacuum.  Also, please know exactly what the return policy is before you make the purchase.  It could save you from a major headache.
  I will at least acknowledge that Bissell is finally sending me a replacement machine.  I will also acknowledge that when you do call Bissell you can be connected with an actual person relatively quickly.  Also when you email Bissell on their website, they will get back to you relatively soon.  Some companies are more difficult, so I will give them credit on this.  Truthfully, though, I've had it with Bissell.  The whole process went on much longer than it should have.  It was certain that the machine would continue to fail after the one year warranty was expired.  After all, I had only used it four times since the last service and it failed again.  It would have been so much easier to have been able to return it some place locally and concluded this business.
  If Bissell does send a replacement vacuum and it works better for some time, then I will acknowledge that in this review, but until then, this is my review.