ID: B000F9Y2T6-R3OI1LXK9UVQIO-A2ZG3HNIHAAWOZ
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-7340-Flip-Select-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A2ZG3HNIHAAWOZ
ReviewerName: K. Hall
Date: September 9, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 1.0
Title: Nice idea, very poor performance
Content:
After reading numerous reviews for both this model and the model without heat I finally decided to take the plunge and try this floor vac/mop (with heat) on my laminate floors. I have a puppy and two cats so needless to say I am constantly vacuuming and moping my floors. I already have the Swifer Wet Jet and that does a pretty good job but I thought that this product might be even better since it had a built-in floor vacuum and would eliminate the need to haul out the hardfloor vacuum cleaner everytime I had to sweep up pet hair (which is several times a day since I'm a bit OCDish about my floors) and then mop with the Swifer. 
Well, as I said, I read the reviews and based on the mixed opinions I had my doubts that this would be worth the time, money, and effort and unfortunately, those doubts were more than confirmed. The unit is hard to use, clunky, and does poorly at the jobs it is supposed to do. I would agree with the other reviewers who said the exhaust air blowing from the fan hinders any actual vacuuming because it just blows it out of the way before the front of the vacuum has a chance to suck it up. Then on the flip-side, the mopping function doesn't leave the floors dry and it doesn't leave it streak-free either. In fact, I had several areas where dirty water pooled at the head of the vacuum and had to be mopped up by hand because the machine wouldn't suck the water into the dirty tank despite going over the area several times. So basically, I used the thing once, hated it, cleaned it up, and put it back in the box to ship it back to Amazon.com. Thankfully, Amazon.com is a great place to buy and try new things and have always been quick with shipping and returns. If I would have had to pay for shipping either way I would definitely have felt a lot more ripped off and less inclined to try new things, but since that wasn't the case, I found this experience to be pleasant but disappointing. Like I said, it's a great idea in theory but this product simply doesn't perform like Bissel would have you believe.