ID: B000K36EPM-R3CNS72MTQAEKY-A3HZVZNXWPTGQ
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Mr-Coffee-FTTX95-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3HZVZNXWPTGQ
ReviewerName: J. Davis
Date: July 10, 2008
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very pleased
Content:
We bought this Coffee Maker a month ago. We love it! The program feature is so easy to use...who needs the pause and serve function? It's already brewed when you get up! But if you should happen to wake early I guess the pause and serve would be handy. The descriptions on this pot mentions a warming plate it does not have one don't let that throw you. It has a Thermal Carafe, which is insulated to keep the Coffee warm without the warming plate (saves energy). I made 10 cups of Coffee at 7am and at 10pm that night there was about a 2 cups left in it that was still warm! We brew the full 10 cups everyday and it is plenty hot enough for me. However if my wife uses liquid creamer she says it's not hot enough and she has to nuke (microwave) her coffee. The water level indicators are easy to read. I have read that others have had trouble with filling the water tank (tip: Hold the handle at the bottom when filling the coffee maker). I have had no spillage but I do admit that you have to tilt the Carafe almost upside down to empty it. I don't find it difficult at all to fill the tank don't let that scare you away from this coffee maker. One other feature we like is the switch that allows you to shut OFF the coffee brewing complete alarm!! I have only one complaint about this and ALL coffee makers. A cup is not a cup!!! I have read and friends have told me that none of the coffee makers actually make coffee at a cup = 8 ounces. Be warned on page 10 of the manual it states that "1 cup = 5 fl. oz. of brewed coffee". Yes that's right in what country does that come from??? But ALL of them are doing it. As I understand it coffee makers will be from 4 to 6 oz. equals 1 cup depending on the manufacturer
For the technical people: I am guessing if you brew less coffee it may be cooler because it is less hot coffee containing less BTU's to heat the inside of the Carafe. So the full 10 cups containing more BTU's of heat is able to heat the Carafe better and stay warmer. So if you are only making a few cups the few cups are heating the entire stainless steel inner liner dropping the temperature of the coffee cooler than it would a full 10 cups.