ID: B0007QKMQY-R1KWT823NPBKTT-A3EDVUU7LRFZEJ
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-f3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A3EDVUU7LRFZEJ
ReviewerName: Bob Dobolina
Date: February 13, 2006
Helpful: 25 of 108
Rating: 2.0
Title: I Hate This Camera
Content:
In my opinion, this camera suffers from a couple of serious problems that makes it an extremely poor choice for anyone looking for a professional-level DSLR:
1). It's trying to be too many things to too many levels of photographer.  Canon is clearly going for the consumer/semi-professional/professional market.  In my opinion it turns a potentially great camera into an expensive gadget.  Too many features, too many menu options, too many automatic modes--in short, too much of everything.  Imagine buying a car that has manual AND automatic transmission and is a combination hard-top/rag-top convertible with disc and drum brakes front and back, an AM/FM radio, CD player, cassette player, 8-track tape player, reel-to-reel player, record player, and a 16-track digital recording studio.  "Cool!" you say?  Buy this camera right now.  I'm looking for a good quality DSLR to replace my standard SLR.  This camera has way too many gee-whiz features designed to appeal to the consumer market.  It makes it a pain in the arse to use--unless you want those features, of course.  I don't.
2). You can't use the display as a viewfinder.  This is a huge deal-killer, in my opinion.  One of the great advantages of a digital camera is the ability to use the onscreen display for setting up your shots.  I understand they're trying to maximize battery life, but a digital camera where you CAN NOT use the display while you're shooting is absurd.
3). Terrible macro mode.  Not just average.  Terrible.  You definitely need an optional macro lens in order to take decent macro photos with this camera.  Otherwise, you're going to be stuck with Canon's bizarre decision to force the use of flash in macro mode (you get to choose between no flash mode or macro mode in the auto settings (but not both(?)) or manual mode with an optional lens).  Buying a closeup lens for a high-end camera is reasonable to expect, I suppose, except that I've never run into this problem with ANY other digital camera I've used.  Most are great for quick-and-dirty macro photography right out of the box.
4). The dumbest manual white-balance procedure I've ever seen in my life.  Use it.  I dare you.
5). Incredibly lousy manual.  Standard feature for ALL cameras these days, I know.  Doesn't excuse the fact, however.
Don't get me wrong, this is a GREAT camera that takes excellent pictures and works as advertised.  It just not anywhere close to what I was looking for.  Canon could have skipped 80% of the features and simplified a few others and I would have kept this camera.  For now, I'll stick to my Sony DSC-H1 for snaps and my trusty old Nikon and Canon F-1 for the rest.