ID: B00008UI0R-R2DIHPXGJ5ST3B-A315LGFSF696DD
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A315LGFSF696DD
ReviewerName: Dr. David R. Evans "Dr. Dave"
Date: September 9, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 2.0
Title: It sucked; now it sucks
Content:
I bought this vacuum at the end of April, 2007, and at first it worked fine; exceptionally fine, in fact, according to my maid.  (I can't do much manual labor due to a disability.)  The only complaint was its bulkiness.  In spite of, or because of, its two part design, the small (?) following portion, which contains the motor, doesn't follow well, as its wheels don't swivel, and it keeps bumping into baseboards, furniture, etc.  The handle portion is bulky and heavy; its electronic controls are "sticky" and are difficult to operate.  In all, the whole machine is much too heavy  in combination; perhaps that's why they made it in two parts.  It is just cumbersome to maneuver. Although, as I said, at first it worked fine, cleaning the carpet well, and doing everything well, about a year ago (a year after purchase), the separate power cord, attached to the handle and leading to the power head became separated.  No problem, I just plugged it back in.  Now, however, it apparently is not getting any power to the power head, as it only sucks, and the brushes do not spin (which is a vital part to any vacuum).  The separate electrical cord, which previously I had plugged in, is not now unplugged.  In spite of wiggling the cord at its two connectors, it will not work.  I am taking it in to be evaluated today, but I suspect that the repair cost will exceed the value of the vacuum, and I'll just tell them to junk it (or fix it and sell it to the next "sucker" (pun intended).
In essence, if you want a vacuum which is "cute" and "novel in appearance", but is bulky, heavy, hard to maneuver, keeps bumping into things, and works well for about two years, and then gives up the ghost (in my experience), this is the one for you.  Otherwise, get a standard one-piece machine which, although it may be relatively heavy and hard to maneuver (unless it's a Dyson--my next try--unless my maid is satisfied in bringing her own, in which case, I'll save my money and not buy anything), avoids the "cute" or "novel" appearance, which sticks to the old tried-and-true single piece design.  You'll be happier, overall.