ID: B0007QKMR8-R3M8WMG3ORJWMB-A3EBSKAQYIEJG8
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-Camera
ReviewerID: A3EBSKAQYIEJG8
ReviewerName: William M. Noblit "WillNoblit"
Date: June 10, 2007
Helpful: 15 of 15
Rating: 4.0
Title: Learn to photograph with the Canon 350D
Content:
If you want to upgrade from your point and shoot cameras and at the same time learn to take real photographs, then get this camera. With prices around (...) it's a virtual no brainer for serious beginners.  You will probably not notice the 2 MP difference between this camera and the XTI unless you are doing a lot of photo manipulation or printing very large prints.  Plus shooting in RAW will help you from losing data while correcting photos.  
The Censor cleaner on the XTI is just one more moving part that could break.  As long as you are pretty careful, you shouldn't worry too much about dirt on the censor.  I've changed lenses on the beach pretty easily by making the change inside my camera  bag.   
I've noticed a couple of review complaining about the White balance and issues with overexposed pictures.  TAKE IT OFF AUTOMATIC, LEARN TO USE YOUR CAMERA, AND TOSS THE KIT LENS!!!!  If you've done any research you've probably come to realize that the 18-55mm kit lens is a dud.  it produces poor color saturation, it's slow as Christmas, and is not very sharp.  You can improve the color saturation a little with  a polarizing filter, but you're better off just not buying the lens.  For (...) you can get a great little 50mm fixed lens that is pretty sharp from about f1.8 - f8 and it has great color saturation.
It's also true that you have to compose the shot through the view finder and not on the LCD.  You're playing with the big boys now!  There's more to think about than whether to use the "little mountain" or the "little stick man."  Shutter Speed, aperture, ISO Sensitivity, White balance, Light meter, and the ability to lock the focus are all viewed through the view finder.  
Here's the rub with the XT... It's Tiny, It's plastic, and any thing shot with an ISO of 800 and above is pretty worthless.  It's not a pretty grain!
If I had to do it over again I would have gotten the 30D for several reasons.  If I was debating on getting the XT or the XTI I'd lean towards  the XT. The 2MP difference wouldn't affect me.  The Larger LCD would be nice but it's not worth an extra (...).