ID: B0000YTYGM-R22505ZSQI98BE-A123RSRNMFPOYO
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DTC-975BKN-Programmable-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A123RSRNMFPOYO
ReviewerName: D. Tilton "life is supposed to be fun"
Date: August 22, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 2.0
Title: Coffee stays hot but ...
Content:
I purchased this coffee maker 3 years ago.  I had very high hopes for it since it was made by Cuisinart and I already owned another product from them that was very high quality. This product does not live up to their reputation.  For the price I paid ($100) and the amount of time I have owned it, it has not proven to be a quality product.
I love the fact that it keeps the coffee steaming hot for hours unless the pot is about 1/4 full in which case it cools down to warm.  As others have already mentioned, you must be very careful to line up the lid and the arrow when you are brewing a pot. This isn't difficult just something you need to pay attention to.  I use another carafe to fill the water reservoir because it is just easier.
I use the programable feature everyday so that coffee will be ready in the morning. This is great except for when the electricity goes off for 30 seconds to a minute or so. Cuisinart didn't bother to have any kind of battery backup which is typically for 5 to 15 minutes and is found on many other high end coffee makers. This is quite frustrating if you experience electrical fluctuations of very short duration very often. Of course, then you need to reset the programable feature as well as the time. The display window is adequate but the auto program indicator and the pm indicator are so tiny that you need a magnifier to see them.  Also, the ink has faded/worn off on the front of the machine for the most part. So if you don't already have it memorized where the on/off/hr/ min/auto program buttons are located it will be difficult to set the time etc.
I don't have any complaints about the brew cycle or the taste of my coffee.  I have never experienced an overflow during brewing. I use drip grind coffee and find this works very well in this machine.
While my coffee tastes good and stays hot, I don't think this machine is a good value. It is overpriced, poor quality, and not up to Cusinart's usual high standards.