ID: B00006F2MI-R17HNNZUAUBU0M-A3B4ZWRHQ64U82
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Grind-Brushed-Chrome
ReviewerID: A3B4ZWRHQ64U82
ReviewerName: C. Jansen
Date: December 30, 2004
Helpful: 12 of 12
Rating: 1.0
Title: It seemed like a good idea
Content:
About a year ago I purchased one of these. It look good and I really liked the idea of a 'grind and brew' system. I figured it would save me a step or two in the whole coffee making process. 
I was wrong. 
The system has several problems;
(1) The grinder tends to collect steam after each pot of coffee. The steam condenses and then mixes with the remaining coffee grounds and will gum up the screen that allows the coffee to pass down to the filter basket. The grinder has to be cleaned after every cup of coffee. 
(2) The filter swings out at the touch of a button. This was a nice little feature at first, but then the latch wore out and now the basket has to be held in place or it will pop out when the freshly ground coffee hits it. Usually, this is enough to cause the carafe to fill up with coffee grounds and the plastic filter piece to fill up and then leak over the side. Something you really don't want to see first thing in the morning.
(3) The top of the carafe tends to get gummed up with the finer coffee grounds. This causes the carafe itself to leak (see afore mentioned comment on leaking and first thing in the morning).
(4) So, the unit requires a great deal of cleaning. You have to take the grinder out, the filter basket and filter out, the carafe and its lid out and soap them all up and clean them. While you're doing this, if you inadvertently hit any one of the 5 buttons on the coffee maker, it will beep until you replace all the components or unplug it. If you unplug it, then you have to go through and reset both the clock and the programmable start time. Annoying and enough to want to roof test the unit all together. 
(5) The carafe itself leaks like a sieve when you pour coffee. No matter how slow or fast you pour, coffee leaks out the spout and down the carafe. 
All in all, I would avoid the 'grind and brew' systems just because of the number of components that have to be kept clean for the system to work. 
Now, I just have to find a replacement system.