ID: B000A3WS8O-R318KZLTZSEIBX-AQ5YFIJXJ6N5F
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Video-Black-MA147LL-Generation
ReviewerID: AQ5YFIJXJ6N5F
ReviewerName: J. D. Woody
Date: February 20, 2006
Helpful: 7 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best overall and most user-friendly multimedia player available
Content:
The 60 GB Apple Video iPod is the best handheld device for listening to music, podcasts, audiobooks, storing photos, and watching videos that exists. It is also the most user-friendly handheld money can buy.
Apple includes iTunes CD with your iPod, and will alert you of any updates to the software. Once iTunes is on your hard drive (Windows and Mac compatible) it will automatically add your .mp3 files on its library. Load all your CDs onto iTunes, and simply download music from the iTunes music store (priced at around $0.99 per track or $9.99 per CD, generally). It literally couldn't get any simpler.
Your hard drive will also have a space for your picture library, which will also automatically load on the iPod. You can have tens of thousands of photos, which you can view individually or as a slideshow. Settings allow you to change the speed of the slideshow, or play background music over them.
Podcasts (audio or video programs ranging from comedy shows, sports talk shows, news, etc) are available all over the web and generally cost nothing. Podcasts update automatically, and when you update your iPod you'll get the latest episode of your favorite podcasts on your device. You will never miss your favorite show again.
Videos are available for purchase from the iTunes music store. Music videos, movie trailers, animated short films, and full length episodes of your favorite TV shows are available for purchase (usually $1.99 an episode). You can also upload your own QuickTime or .mpg movies of your own onto the iPod. This feature is very enjoyable, and you will greatly enjoy it on when you have 45 minutes to kill and want to watch Desperate Housewives or Law and Order. 
Extras include a few basic games (Solitaire, Bricks, and Parachutes) and a Calendar/Contacts feature which will sync with Palm Desktop or Outlook.
Overall an absolutely wonderful music/video player and the best investment you could possibly make.