ID: B000VDQ38E-R3OGXPMSQ4MRPL-A2CRZ88V02QGHE
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A2CRZ88V02QGHE
ReviewerName: M. Flinn "mflinn"
Date: August 5, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 1.0
Title: Carpet Destroyer
Content:
This vacuum just arrived on my doorstep this afternoon and I was ready to put it to the test.  We have 3 kids, 3 dogs, 1 cat and various foster dogs that come through during the year, so needless to say we have a lot of dirt & hair to clean up.  For the past 3 years I have used my Bissell Revolution "lift off" and it has been very good to me. Recently, however, one of our dogs got to the TurboBrush, which I really need on my living room furniture, and instead of ordering a replacement part I decided to buy a newer Vac and move the Revolution upstairs where the lighter duty would suit its older status.
As an upright floor vac, the Pet Hair eraser did a great job on our very hairy livingroom floor, but when I moved it into the kitchen to try it on the linoleum I realized that it did not have a switch to turn off the floor brush.  This made absolutely no sense to me!  In order to use a floor vac on bare floor, you have to put it on its lowest floor setting to get the best suction. Without the ability to turn off the brush, the brush will beat the HECK out of the linoleum.  Not Good!  I raised the setting and tried the lint brush, hoping that maybe that was Bissell's solution to the bare floor problem, but no dice. The lint brush picks up very little on bare floor and the suction is too light to grab what it does pick up.  I resigned myself to the fact that one vacuum just can't possibly be good at everything, and moved on to use the attachments on the living room furniture.  Knowing, at this point, that the floor brush would not turn off, I made sure it was still on the highest setting and proceeded to vacuum my furniture.  I have a dark blue chaise that attracts dog hair like nothing I've seen, but I don't like to use the TurboBrush on it since the fabric is a lighter weight upholstery and wears easily.  The contour brush worked wonderfully!  I was very pleased with how quickly I was able to clean the chaise.  Then I went to move the vacuum and discovered a burn mark on my carpet!  Ack! Our house and carpet were new when we moved in 2 years ago...I'm positive that we do not have cheap carpeting (as Bissell tried to tell another reviewer), and pretty sure that the Vac is not missing any important parts, as it came straight out of the box.  This seems to be a major manufacturing error.  If the Vacuum is supposedly designed to be used on bare floor, and with handheld attachments, then the ability to turn off the floor brush is a MUST!! In addition to causing floor damage, the constant motion of the brush even when not in use has got to cause a lot of extra wear & tear on the belt assembly.  I wonder if that's what's causing some of the other reported blow-outs??
I will be returning the Pet Hair Eraser for another Revolution Lift Off, and purchasing the pet hair attachments seperately.