ID: B000IXD7YA-R14DMVZM1FB6AD-A2HCKBBEXELJ3R
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-P105-S6114-Processor-SuperMulti
ReviewerID: A2HCKBBEXELJ3R
ReviewerName: Pampeliska
Date: March 2, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 2.0
Title: Very mixed feelings about this one!
Content:
Considering all the planned obsolescence and the fact how fast are the new models brought to the market and then replaced with the "newer better" versions, I was surprised to see this laptop still being sold.
I have owned it almost 3.5 years by now and have sort of mixed feelings about it.
It definitely is powerful unit with plenty of storage and high enough processor speed, and I have used it instead of desktop all this time, and have, of course, grown attached to it and rely on it heavily.   Even though the above factors (storage and speed, and reasonable reliability) never were an issue, when there is time for me to go and buy new computer, it will NOT be Toshiba again.
Here are the (3 main) reasons why:
1.  
The CD drive has not been working properly for a very long time.  
It still plays cds and dvds, and I can use it to import songs in iTunes with no problem.
However I have not been able to burn music CDs and have them come out right.
I have several software programs available, and have tried all (three) of them with the same dismal result.
Each time the CD would not work properly and started skipping and stopping around second or third song, no matter what CD player it was played on (and I tried several CD players to make sure).
Previously I have owned HP laptop, and the CD music burning was never an issue, and it always worked right.  Not so with this model.
Frankly, it is not much of a problem now, as I have not been listening to CDs for a while (thanks to iPods :), but back about 3 yrs ago I needed to burn music mixes on the CDs partly for my job and partly for my family, and it was a major problem, that I could not do it on this computer.
2.  
The other, lot bigger and infinitely more annoying problem  is the fan issue.  
From reading the reviews on other Toshiba laptops, this does not by far seem to be limited to just this particular model, but to other Toshibas as well.
What I mean by that is the constant rapid outbursts, when the fan kicks in high gear, runs pretty loud for several seconds and stops...  and the whole process repeats over and over till it drives you nuts...  almost like a chinese torture, annoying, crazy-making, chipping away at you, and you cannot make it stop or get away from it.
One thing is dealing with noisy fan, but it would be far more tolerable, if it ran constantly for awhile, then stopped, and was done with it.
The only way to avoid this incessant on-and-off is to really put only minimal strain on the CPU and to not run too many programs at a time...   which of course could be done, but in the big picture it is completely unacceptable having to deal with something like this in the first place.
3.  
Another REALLY big thing are the missing parts of the screen.
Not much more than a year after I bought it, about 1.5 inch wide blank white stripe popped  up on the screen, running vertically, covering all the data underneath...  it was distracting and unappealing, but it was positioned in a way, that was not interfering with the computer use, and I could work around it. 
About six months ago another stripe showed up, right at the START screen, covering all the important essential function needed for the proper computer use, and at that point I was almost ready to throw the laptop away.   
I was told, that the repair (as is usually the case with electronics) would be about as costly as getting a new unit, so I almost got a new one then.  Finally I just plunked down more money for new screen, that works perfectly fine, however at this point the portability (the main reason for getting the laptop in the first place) is a non-existent advantage and a moot point.  
(And also the fan issue got considerably worse, now that I am running external monitor as a part of the setup).
So there it is - one star taken off for each issue, remaining two starts given for relatively reliable performance otherwise.