ID: B000CS7UTY-R29VM4H72ER7HY-A307N15HTJLGO8
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Zen-Vision-Video-Player
ReviewerID: A307N15HTJLGO8
ReviewerName: David A. Giroux "DavidG"
Date: February 21, 2006
Helpful: 5 of 106
Rating: 3.0
Title: Not a bad try - but still no iPod.
Content:
While this is certainly the best player to come out to compete against iPod, it just doesn't quite execute as well as Apple.
A quick summary:  The Vision: M costs more per GB of storage space, is harder to use, and just isn't as cool and sophisticated as the Apple iPod.  While the Creative has a great screen and a built-in radio, these just don't make up for the cost and cheep-feel of the device.
While the screen quality is great, it is not that big of a deal.  The screen resolution is the same as the iPod video (storage capacity and battery life are also virtually the same between the two products).  The only difference is the number of colors the screen can display, which is hardly noticeable at that screen size.  I imagine Apple will have a similar screen soon if you really need the color.
As far as storage space is concerned, the iPod is a better bang for your buck.  While Creative claims to have a 15,000-song capacity, it is making this claim based on a 64kbps audio file.  I don't know of anyone who has a file lower in quality than at 128kbps file.  Apple is up front about their capacity.  For their 30-gigabyte iPod, they claim 7500 songs at 128kbps (to get 15000 you need the 60gb, something Creative doesn't offer).  Your Creative player would have the same capacity since it also has a 30-gigabyte drive.  Cost: $299 for a 30gb Video iPod or $329.99 for a 30gb Creative Zen Vision: M.  Take your pick.
Besides storage space, another item to consider is to is ease-of-use.  While they may look similar when it comes to input layout, they are not.  The Creative is much more difficult to navigate than the iPod.  Apple's menu navigation with the touch wheel is very intuitive, and simple to pick up on.  Creative's approach is, well, creative.  The menus are slow, and while you can learn how to use the touch pad, it is not very natural.  Stick with Apple if you appreciate ease of use and not having to look at your screen every time you want to do something.
Apple's wonderful iTunes software is another reason to stick with the incumbent here.  It is sleek and easy to use.  It organizes music better than any other jukebox out there, and interfaces perfectly well with your iPod.  Even though iPod doesn't play as many video formats, iTunes converts and optimizes video to play on your iPod for you.  Simple as can be.
Finally, just take into account quality and style.  Apple has been making quality iPods for years now, and they just keep getting better.   The iPod is proven, while the new Vision: M is not.  If there were significant benefits, it might be worth the switch, but the features are pretty much the same (except the radio, I must concede).  Apple simply makes a classier product.  The lines are simple and elegant on an iPod, and they feel great in your hand.  The Creative is very plastic and feels more like a toy than a sophisticated music device.  Even when Apple offered color on the iPod Mini, they still did so with a touch of class - the Vision: M just looks and feels cheep, although it is well build.  Besides, with the iPod, you not only get quality, but you get to say you own an iPod.  No one will know what you're talking about if you say you have a Vision: M.