ID: B00008UI0R-R25LWTPTWKKJM0-A3A9NQ6KZ1VUD4
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A3A9NQ6KZ1VUD4
ReviewerName: Eric C. Peters
Date: August 13, 2006
Helpful: 14 of 14
Rating: 5.0
Title: Have you hoovered lately?
Content:
When my Russian-born wife first came to the US I gave her a tour of our home's appliances.  We came upon my Panasonic upright vacuum, and she remarked, "Oh, that's a nice looking hoover."  "No," I told her, "it's a Panasonic."  As it turned out, hoover means vacuum cleaner to most Europeans.  What's more, hoover can be either a noun or a verb, as in, "Darling, please hoover the living room before your parents arrive."
Anyway, I digress.  When the old Panasonic started breaking drive belts faster than diners break bread I scouted out some replacements, came upon this Hoover hoover, read the rave reviews, and bought it sight unseen from Amazon, albeit a little nervously.  I've always liked to put my hands on tools before investing in them.
Happy to say, my worries were unfounded.  This Hoover really sucks, and that's good.  It removed carpet ner that the Panasonic wouldn't touch.  Embedded cat fur was no problem.  We live in a townhouse with 3 year old construction grade carpet, and the stuff is REALLY clean now after 4 or 5 hooverings.  The hose is long enough, and the controls are conveniently located in the cleaning handle.  The cleaning head itself is light enough to push around easily, and the canister oblingingly follows along on oversized wheels.  Overall this Hoover is a pleasure to operate, and, as previously stated, it cleans carpets really well.  It does a good job on our vinyl kitchen floor too, and the stair brush tool is nice for upholstery. 
You won't find a much better hoover for $176.
There are a couple of minor drawbacks.  The dirt collection bucket doesn't hold a lot, which requires frequent emptyings--but that's also a function of the jolly good suction.  The HEPA filter clogs fairly quickly too and takes some effort to clean well.  There's no on-board storage for the stair cleaning tool, and the cleaning handle falls too easily from the locked upright position.  But these are fairly minor flaws.
We're real happy with this vacuum, and my wife is happy too because when she asks for the hoover I'll know what she's talking about.