ID: B000G1JZIG-R3P44PJ6E3FXYA-A2RVH3A5OX6CNO
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-K110D-6-1MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A2RVH3A5OX6CNO
ReviewerName: Brian Mattison "Technophile"
Date: May 27, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very nice 'budget' camera
Content:
This was my first digital SLR camera, and I must say i'm very impressed. I have used higher dollar cameras before, and this Pentax branded camera can truly hold it's own against them. 
Most of us haven't heard of Pentax. It's always Canon this and Nikon that, well there are plenty of other SLR makers that can succeed the image quality of Canikon (Canon and Nikon) very easily. 
As many before have said, the noise control on this SLR is superb. Great detail with some noise, but it's nicely controlled for a good balanace of detail and noise. With a simple noise filter in post processing, the image noise is nearly absent. It's nearly non-existent in higher light shots.
The focusing in high light is very quick and accurate. It searches.. and searches, and searches, then finally locks, in low light. The kit lens (18-55mm) is faster than the lens I use (Sigma 28-80 zoom macro) but I like the sigma more as it retains better detail and has a higher zoom- much better for casual photography. I have not tried a lower aperature lens (around f/2.8 to f/1.4) being a poor college student.
The lens mount supports every lens made before this camera, and many of the newer lenses. It does not support SDM, but some SDM lenses have a legacy screwmount for this camera and older *istD cameras. You can get many solid, and very nice, lenses that are manual for $50 used, saving quite the bundle.
The LCD is bright and clear, and has a nice wide viewing angle.
The LCD on the top of the camera is useful, it is absent on the lower end SLRs from Canon, Sony, Nikon and others. It's not necassary, though.
This camera is built like a tank. The battery bay and SD card bay seem sort of flimsy, but overall the camera has a very nice, solid feel to it. I thought the buttons for the menu were sort of annoying to press but that is more likely a personal matter.
The flash is adequate for what we can expect from a built-in flash, however, an external flash is probably a better for low light. 
The 6.1mp CCD is a very nice sensor indeed. Dont let the megapixel gimmicks fool you, each pixel sensor in this camera is larger, and therefore collects more light- or more color. Anybody can crop a photo to become much larger even at 6.1mp, so it isn't an issue.
With my Sigma lens, I noticed that green really pops out. When I use my telephoto, image quality loses the vivid colors. I haven't really used the kit lens in the feild yet. 
Customer support was very quick and helpful, they answered all of the inquiries the next business day. 
I would recommend Pentax to any shooter after my experience with this camera, I am no longer a 'Nikon guy'.