ID: B0000YTYGM-RQNB5T0OMDMC-A3P7OPZVNVU3RE
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DTC-975BKN-Programmable-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3P7OPZVNVU3RE
ReviewerName: Janet L. Wilson "RacerWife7"
Date: March 8, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best Thermal Carafe Machine I've owned to date
Content:
I'm a big fan of the thermal carafe.  I don't like my coffee to be burned in a glass pot with heat under it.  In the past, I've had other brands of thermal carafes.  But, most make only up to 8 cups of coffee (which, in reality, is only about 3 mugs of coffee).  When I bought this one about 2 years ago, I was looking for a larger carafe.  When I originally found this one, I was skeptical of it because of the reviews.  But, after looking at it in person, I thought I'd try it out.  I have not regretted it once since then.  This coffee pot makes the best, hottest coffee I've ever had from a drip coffee maker.  And, as another person's review said, if it broke, I'd go right out and purchase another one.  
I was amazed at how much better my coffee tasted in this pot!  My old coffee maker was not doing my coffee justice - and I didn't even know it until I made coffee in this one.  That was an unexpected plus.  
As far as the overflow issues, I've had NONE.  Not once has mine overflowed.  And the entire pot, basket, etc. is all in good, working condition 2 years later.
If I had to pick ONE issue, it'd be that if I don't drink all the coffee and forget that there's some in there (since you can't SEE it, it's easy to not realize there's more in there without picking up the carafe), the coffee will sometimes stick to the inside of the carafe.  And the ONLY thing I can do to get it out is use bleach.  I soak it in bleach for a little while, and then run it through the dishwasher and it is fine - just as shiny as it has always been.  That's the only problem I've had with it.  And I don't even consider it a "problem", per se.
Just for the sake of argument, I make coffee every day - one pot every morning and more later in the day at times.  I've used Mr. Coffee and other Cuisinart models in the past, among others.