ID: B000N22JPE-R1LUXLHXNDXAFV-A1O528BRAV0216
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1100BK-12-Cup-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1O528BRAV0216
ReviewerName: AZ Reader
Date: January 18, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good choice for an updated coffeemaker
Content:
The DCC-1100 is a good update from my 10-year-old previous Cuisinart coffeemaker. I'm happy I bought it instead of just replacing the broken glass pot on the other one.  Some observations after a month of using it:
I found that 10 tablespoons of coffee makes a full-flavored brew.  Eight is weak, 12 might overwhelm the brew basket.
Some annoyances have been designed out, in particular the tendency to dribble while I'm pouring and the difficulty of cleaning without tearing up my hand. This bigger, wider-at-the-top pot does not dribble at all, and the top comes off easily for much easier cleaning. The control system offers more features, but pushing the On button is all that's required, really.
I would have given this item 5 stars except for three minor frustrations:
- The pot lid has a fused piece over the opening where the coffee pours into the pot. Soapy water sponged into it probably cleans it adequately, but (my unit is white, not black) over time I expect some staining to build up in it. (Especially since I often make tea in the pot: 2 - 3 T. tea leaves or 4 - 5 opened tea bags.) A short soak in diluted bleach should resolve this, I'd think, but still . . .
- A 12-cup pot is very heavy when filled with water. For someone with not much arm strength, lifting it to pour into the relatively small water chute in the unit could be difficult. (Okay, that's me, and it is a little awkward.) Resting the pot lip on the edge of the unit helps. But its still important to pour the water fairly slowly so it doesn't slop inside or out.
- The instructions are less than complete.  For instance, there's a water filter that needs to be set up and serviced, but the instructions are confusing: "Rinse the filter under running water for 10 seconds." After brewing, or before? Every time? Once in a while? It doesn't say.
The footprint of this unit on the counter is not bad compared to some of the other major brands I've seen. All in all, I'm pleased with this purchase.