ID: B000063XHI-R354293986E5FJ-A39A2ZQW7C0USZ
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Capresso-440-05-Electronic-Coffeemaker-Thermal
ReviewerID: A39A2ZQW7C0USZ
ReviewerName: Bookworm-Coffee Lover
Date: February 17, 2007
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 4.0
Title: Capresso Won Our Taste Tests Results
Content:
I love coffee.  I buy good beans and grind them at home.  I never understood why the coffee we made at home was nowhere near as good as coffee house coffee.
So I did research, learned about the proper brewing temperatures and narrowed down the choices to three coffee makers.
1-Technivorm:  While this one still seems like a great choice, it was not available locally.  Since I was going from spending around $50 on a coffee maker to around $200, I wanted to be sure that I could easily return it IF I didn't see a big jump in quality.  The Technivorm is only available at a few online stores, so I crossed it off my list.
2-Cuisinart Brew Central DC-1200 &
3-Capresso MT-500  (From what I can tell, this one functions exactly the same as the Capresso MT-500 Plus.  The only difference is appearance.)
I actually purchased both the Cuisinart and the Capresso so I could do a head-to-head comparison.  If you think this is overboard, my husband would agree with you.
The cuisinart was about $80 and the Capresso was about $190 so I figured that I would set both coffee makers up, do a blind taste test, and return the losing coffee maker.  Since making a smaller pot than capacity can affect the flavor, I made sure to brew full pots in order to compare both under optimal conditions.  I used the same beans, the same tap water and both machines were set up with charcoal filters.  I also read and followed the instructions for both.
Then my husband and I gave blind taste tests to each other.  He drinks his with sugar and creamer and I take mine black.  Both of us independently chose the Capresso brew.  It was smoother and just tasted like a higher quality cup of coffee. 
We did, however, find the Cuisinart Brew Central to be nearly as good.  Since it is much cheaper, it is probably a better value.  
We chose to keep the Capresso and this was the right choice for us.  The bottom line is: it makes VERY GOOD coffee!  I wanted the best possible cup of coffee AND the Capresso came with a thermal coffee pot option, which I really wanted.  One additional factor was that the Capresso was a 10-cup brewer compared to Cuisinart's 12-cups.  As I mentioned before, the coffee tastes better when you brew an entire pot and I knew there would be some waste with the 12-cup machine.
The reasons the Capresso earns 4 Stars instead of 5 is because it is a lot more expensive than the Cuisinart (which performs nearly as good, in my opinion) and the thermal pot could do a better job keeping your coffee hot.  My LL Bean thermos keeps my coffee hot for 10+ hours, so I know Capresso could do the same with a higher quality thermal carafe.