ID: B000MQJ19S-R2HVB2EIQ40KTZ-A1XXLO4H4O0XPY
Category: MP3Players
Product: SanDisk-Sansa-Video-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A1XXLO4H4O0XPY
ReviewerName: Basquedude
Date: March 1, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great, but not perfect
Content:
I bought a Sansa View over a month ago, and I am pretty impressed with the product, though there are a few things that have kept me from giving it 5 stars. First, the good:
  It has a great feel to it. It's very slim, and it feels extremely comfortable in the hand. Ergonomically, it is fantastic. It feels light, but not cheaply made. I can access the features I want quickly, and the navigation scroll wheel feels better than an ipod. 
    The screen displays pictures well. I have some favorite pictures of the kids, as well as some scenic pictures I have taken over the years. I don't mind showing the pictures on the Sansa because they look good on the screen. Colors are vibrant, and my black and white pictures show a lot of detail. I know that most people don't buy an MP3 player to show pictures, but that feature works well nevertheless.  
   It has an equalizer. I know that some people don't seem to like it, but it works well for me, and you have the ability to customize it. This feature is not found on many other MP3 players. 
  The amount of music that it stores seems to be just right. Of course, this is a generic statement for all 8 GB players, but, for my money, I wouldn't want anything larger. Think about it... if I can only listen to this for 30 minutes to an hour a day, I would rather make sure that I am listening to songs in my top 2,000 favorites, than say, songs that are in my top 20,000 (if there is such a thing as 20,000 favorites...). This player gives me the size and convenience I want, without the "extras" that suddenly make it less pleasurable. 
   The price is right. It is cheap if you consider 1) the price of other players with the same size capacity, and 2) all the general features you get, such as a radio, recorder, photo display, audiobook player, and -- of course-- MP3 player with equalizer.
   Now the bad...
 I have had a problem with it "locking up" after disconnecting it to my PC. In those cases it will continue to show the "Connected" message and will refuse to allow me to do anything with it, including powering it down. If it continues I will need to get a replacement.