ID: B000I0WQR2-R1AKKD98XTGZQ6-A1D0RXVGJFFQK2
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Bionaire-BH3950-U-Micathermic-Adjustable-Thermostat
ReviewerID: A1D0RXVGJFFQK2
ReviewerName: V. Madhusudanan
Date: October 15, 2007
Helpful: 47 of 47
Rating: 5.0
Title: finally a room heater that does just that. no bonus noise, weight or danger
Content:
This product is very similar to the higher priced BH3900. The review below also applies to this. 
---
My new home came with central heating. I loved the convenience, but wanted a heater for the bedroom so I didn't have to heat the entire home through the night, when it was only one room we needed heat in. There began my quest for a portable electric heater! 
My first try was a Bionaire Digital Tower Ceramic Heater. It went right back to the store the moment I realized how powerful (read : noisy) the fan inside was. It did do a decent job warming up the room though. 
I knew I'd like something quiet. Real quiet. My next try was an Oil Filled Radiator. It was much quieter - just low clicking sounds (probably from the metal or oil expanding?) - but failed to impress on heating. It took almost an hour to make a significant difference to a cold room (12x14) - and barely kept the temperature up through the night with the thermostat dialled up. When in use - the surface turned really hot - and I worried about someone stepping into it in the middle of the night - or my cat scalding herself while trying to kill it :) 
I decided to try the Bionaire BH3900 - it promised swifter heating and a cool surface. My wife and me were delighted! It warms the room up much swifter than the oil filled radiator and is absolutely silent! The heat mostly escapes out the top - and there isn't a lot of heat radiated to the sides. The grille on the side makes this look more elegant than the radiators - and just gets luke warm even when this has been running all night. And while my cat has sniffed at the grille (when on) - she hasn't been tempted into attacking it yet. 
This was twice the price of the other options we looked at - but were sold on it the first night we tried using it. I wish the thermostat were digital (knob takes some tweaking to find your sweet spot) - but our quest for a heater has ended.