ID: B000BC2GGS-R2WWO3AQ1FXEZ8-A14K1DM5JGVLGP
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Honeywell-HZ519-Digital-Profile-Comfort
ReviewerID: A14K1DM5JGVLGP
ReviewerName: Emell
Date: November 13, 2007
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Basically just what I wanted, with 1 or 2 minor flaws
Content:
I bought this item to heat my toddler daughter's bedroom. My husband wants the house frigid overnight, otherwise he is miserable and can't sleep (P in my A.) My daughter kicks off any and all blankets, so I put this heater in my child's room so I could keep her space warmer. It is absolutely silent, and for the most part, has worked out quite well, after I overcame a few issues. 
Problem 1: the digital thermostat on the heater is not an accurate guage if the room temp. To keep the room at 68 degrees F, I have to set the heater temp to 73 or 74 degrees, depending on how cold the forecast. This is becasue the heater's temp sensor is part of the unit (no kidding,) and thus gets hotter and stays hotter than it would if the sensor was, say, across the room on the oposite wall. As it happens, I do have a separate digital thermometer across the room on the opposite wall of the nursery. This is how I know the room temp was not being maintained at the level I set on the space heater.  
problem 2: The digital display is not lit. There is a little gold light near the diplay window, but it does not light the display, it's merely there tell you the unit is on. Just before I go to bed, I usu go in my daughter's room to check on her. If I think I need to adjust the temp setting on the heater, I have to get down on my knees & use my hand to reflect the little gold light back onto the display window so I can read it and make changes.
problem 3: The unit gets quite hot to the touch, which is not great for a toddlers room. However, when it is not activety heating, it cools off nearly instantaneously. I just have to remember to unplug it every morning. This, for me, is not a big deal.
Otherwise I am happy with it. And yes, I am a bit anal retentive about temperature control.