ID: B0009VELUA-RUVS817JJEE16-A8ZBUF0DEYS6G
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-2000-Coffee-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A8ZBUF0DEYS6G
ReviewerName: PAGadgetGuy
Date: December 5, 2005
Helpful: 40 of 42
Rating: 5.0
Title: Appealing both for gadget freaks and the spouses who love them!
Content:
This really is a great coffeemaker.  It not only makes excellent coffee but also cleverly avoids the problem of coffee left over in the carafe cooking into mud on the heating plate over the course of several hours.  Several guests have admired the look of the machine, the taste of the coffee produced, or both.
Complaints about the need to use a measuring cup or pitcher to pour water into this coffeemaker seem somewhat off base to me-- maybe these people are uncoordinated (or I'm much more so than I thought). It seems to me no big deal to fill the coffeemaker when I set it up each evening for the following morning.  I'm not ending up with significant spills.
The machine is actually quite well designed, both asthetically (the analog "coffee gauge" with the brushed steel finish, along with the knobs, lever and colored lights seem somehow both 'retro' and modern at the same time) but more importantly, functionally (the coffee reservoir comes out for emptying, with no drips; the filter basket comes out easily; and the water fill gauge on the side is quite accurate).
I think my favorite thing about this machine is that it appeals both to me (for my gadget loving nature) but also to my wife (because it looks tidy on the counter, with no carafe.)  With a conventional coffeemaker it seems like if the carafe is half full or anything less than sparkling it looks like dirty clutter.
The only thing I don't understand is the gold filter.  What is the appeal of these things?  If one can afford a Cuisinart coffemaker than one can afford paper filters.  My feeling is that a filter such as this only serves to make discarding grounds a little easier; it can't replace a paper filter.  Not only does it allow the beans' oil (if you use one, look for the oil slick on your coffee!  ewwww!) which would normally be held by the paper to get into the coffee, it also lets quite a bit of sediment through.  I use the gold filter, with a paper one sandwiched beneath, between it and the filter basket.  I am always glad I do when I see the amount of sediment it catches.  Using the gold basket in tandem, though, at least eliminates the task of handling a wet filter which is full of grounds.
Overall a great product, and well worth the price.  The three year warranty is pretty impressive too.
***UPDATE 2/23/07***Still works great...None of the mechanical problems others have mentioned.
Still no issue with spilling water-- at least, not often!