ID: B0000C8VEK-RYHU79VLPO2FH-A1NVEDVD0FBW75
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-Camera-18-55mm
ReviewerID: A1NVEDVD0FBW75
ReviewerName: Shiprekd
Date: March 9, 2004
Helpful: 21 of 21
Rating: 5.0
Title: Prosumer or P&amp;S - it does it..
Content:
After reading the couple poor/inexperienced reviews of the camera, I had to write. The Dreb is an EXCELLENT camera for both indoors and outdoor photography from the beginner all the way to even the pro ranks. The Dreb has one of the cleanest images in the high ISO ranges (extremely low noise) of all the cameras. ANY digital image should be post processed, and canon intentionally uses softer raw image processing (which you can change the parameters and even a free third party program called FEC set) than the rest.  Their software does a nice job of post processing for being a bundled software. Almost ALL of the other manufacturers oversharpen the images and Canon gives you room to adjust the images. Basically, the Dreb is a Canon 10D  except for a lack of a few advanced features and has a tough composite body compared to the 10D's magnesium body (I have both the Dreb and the 10D - so take it from someone who knows first hand). The Dreb does do much better with a 420EX shoemount Flash ($180)and with a Sto-Fen Omni-bounce ($20)on it. You get photos rivaling the pros. Again, I know, I take portraits to high speed motorsports with it.  The kit lens 18-55s is an excellent lens and if you complement it with a sigma 70-300 DL super macro ($150+/-) lens, you've got a decent priced setup. I also have the both IS USM lenses and can tell you the cheaper SIGMA focuses faster than the 70-300 IS USM lens (compared them following a RC controlled car!) and even full length focal in macro is better than the $600 IS lens; which by the way, doesn't have macro feature.  Overall the camera is worth more than what you pay. If you get a defective camera, then exchange it, don't bash one of the best cameras/price out there.. Don't shy away from this camera, as you grow/learn, it'll do whatever you point it at.... want examples? go to Pbase or any other photo review site and you'll see that the Dreb is more than respectable.