ID: B000NVVDKC-R2USVDHT08PG7Z-ARJ9HO5E39QDW
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Evolt-Digital-Camera-Stabilization
ReviewerID: ARJ9HO5E39QDW
ReviewerName: gBeast "gbeast"
Date: March 14, 2008
Helpful: 20 of 22
Rating: 5.0
Title: Save Time & Money Buying the Olympus E-510 From Amazon
Content:
This review is about my EXPERIENCE purchasing the awesome Evolt E-510 (with 14-42mm f/3.5-5.6 and 40-150mm f/4.0-5.6 Zuiko Lenses) rather than the camera itself. Hopefully it will save you time and trouble.
When researching online stores to purchase this camera kit the lowest price I found was $527 at Broadway Photo. I carefully read the details, mainly which items were included in the box. Everything in the description matched the list of items "included in the box" on the Olympus website, so I felt reasonably certain that it was an identical kit. Broadway Photo even threw in a "bonus" that included a tripod, cleaning kit and protective film for the LCD screen. I went ahead and placed the order with my Discover card. I opted for Overnight Shipping because the site stated that the camera would ship in 1 - 2 business days and I was trying to get it before the weekend.
The "receipt" that was emailed to me lacked any detail regarding my order, including the price paid for the camera package and shipping ($42.00 for overnight shipping). My order total should have been $569, a considerable savings over any other site offering the camera. The receipt also stated that I needed to make sure that my credit card company had any alternate shipping addresses on file. I called Discover to verify that my work address was on file - it was. I was trying to avoid any last minute calls from Broadway Photo that might delay my order.
The next day I got a phone call from Broadway Photo "verifying" my order. The salesman on the phone also wanted to make sure I didn't need any accessories and was aware of a few things with this particular camera package - namely that the battery was a lower-life battery, the charger was a 12 hour charger and the warranty was only 90 days. He offered a better deal, a long-life battery, a 15 minute charger and a 1 year extended warranty from Olympus for an additional $100. I usually don't go for any bait and switch tactics, but I knew an extended Olympus battery and a quick charger were around $140, and I thought it would be convenient having a charger at work and at home. Against all better judgement, I agreed.
When my package arrived I got the standard camera kit and a TINY box with a TINY tabletop tripod (made up of flexible bendy legs), lens cleaning kit and LCD protective film. The extra battery and charger were missing. The receipt said that the battery and charger were an "UPGRADE" and there was no mention of an extended warranty. I opened the camera box thinking they may have stuffed the charger and battery inside, only to find the standard Olympus battery, charger and standard ONE YEAR WARRANTY. I also noticed that Broadway Photo added an additional $40.50 to my order as a "HANDLING" charge, for a total of $709.50 - a $140.50 jump from the original $569 order. I gave Broadway Photo a call.
I figured that Broadway Photo dealt with gray-market goods (units that may have different features and accessories which are packaged to be sold outside of the U.S. that are being sold within the U.S. market at a discount) - but I was told that the extra $100 was for a SECOND battery, SECOND charger and extended warranty - not the standard issue items that came with the U.S. camera kit. I felt like I was still getting a good deal. The customer service rep explained that the Broadway Photo website plainly stated that they sold "overseas units" and when I asked "gray-market goods?" he said "Oh no, NOT gray-market goods - units packaged for sale overseas". I told him that was the textbook definition of a gray-market good. I told him I felt like Broadway Photo was using bait and switch tactics which he also denied. He told me that the package that was advertised included a shorter life battery and 12-hour charger that Olympus packaged for overseas sales and the UPGRADE was legitimate - even though the web page made no mention that the E-510 kit was packaged for sale overseas. I asked about the 90-Day Warranty vs. the standard 1-Year Warranty and he said the 90-Day warranty was not from Olympus but from an outside vendor. Ahhhhh, so the camera kit wouldn't even be warranted by Olympus because it wasn't made to be sold in the U.S. 
I told him I wanted to return the entire order because I didn't trust Broadway Photo and he said that I would have to pay all return shipping charges and I would not get my shipping and handling charges refunded, BUT, he was willing to send me a true 3-year Olympus extended warranty because he wanted to keep my business. I said the only way he would keep my business would be to send me the 3-year warranty, the extra OLYMPUS battery and the 15-minute charger as I was promised. I also pointed out that Discover would charge-back Broadway Photo for the $82.50 shipping and handling charges so I had nothing to worry about. He said that I had the Olympus battery and charger because they were shipped as an "UPGRADE" to my order, and that the units which originally should have shipped with the kit I ordered off the website were made by after-market manufacturers. I told him to go ahead and send me those instead and I would keep the package. The customer service rep said he couldn't ship the extra battery and charger unless I was willing to pay $24 PLUS shipping and handling - yet another upsell - so I had him issue an RMA number.
I sent the unit back and Broadway Photo did promptly credit my Discover card with everything but the shipping and handling fees -just as I was told. I called Discover and explained the situation and they credited my account with the rest of the charges. Ultimately my fiasco with Broadway Photo cost me $18 to ship the camera back. I have since purchased the E-510 from Amazon (which I should have done in the first place) and I love it.