ID: B000CRX6YI-R2VR22K818FYWC-A2DBWERAXCLLP2
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-70mm-3-5-4-5G
ReviewerID: A2DBWERAXCLLP2
ReviewerName: Kevin Mackie
Date: February 24, 2006
Helpful: 287 of 294
Rating: 5.0
Title: Nikon has nailed it
Content:
No matter how you slice it, this is a great camera.
If you're considering this camera you likely to be in one of two camps:  A Nikon person trying to determine whether or not to buy the N50, N70 or the D200; or you already know you want something more on the pro end of the pro-amateur spectrum and are trying to choose between a Nikon and a Canon.  If you're in the latter camp then you can't go wrong with either the D200 or any of Canon's offerings.  They both make excellent cameras.   If you're already a Nikon person, get the Nikon; if you're already a Canon person, get the Canon.
That said, I'm a Nikon person, and after 5 years of having fun with my film-based N80 I wanted to make the leap into real digital photography.  I say real, because I've had a Canon Sureshot for 4 years and it's great for snapshots, but when it comes to landscapes or dealing with any kind of lighting issues, it just doesn't measure up.  Since I'm a Nikon person (all my lenses work with the new digital SLRs) I looked at the N50, N70 and D200.  There are plenty of sites out there that compare these three cameras (against each other and the competition) to death, so I won't bother with all the details.
We buy cameras to take a variety of different pictures and my choice was driven by my needs, so my review is going to be colored by the kinds of pictures I tend to take.  My favorite pastime is landscape photography.  For this, any of the three cameras will take great pictures.  The 6 mega pixels on the N50 and N70 are more than enough to take great pictures - I've got a 20x30 poster of Yosemite's Half Dome taken with a friend's N70 that is as crisp as anything I've seen.  Having 10mps gives me more room to play with when it comes time for cropping, though, and that's always nice, but hardly a reason to shell out an extra grand.
My next favorite photography subject is my yellow lab, Happy.  If he's standing or sitting still, then all three of these cameras take excellent portrait shots.  But when he's moving, such as launching himself off the end of a pier to fetch a toy in the lake, the D200 really shines.  Its 5fps burst mode takes perfect pictures.  It focuses each shot and with its rich 25 picture buffer built into the camera, I've yet to fill it up.  What this means is that it doesn't matter what speed your memory card is.  The camera takes its pictures and puts them into its buffer.  Then a separate set of processors moves the picture from the buffer to your memory card.  I would have to hold the button down for over 8 seconds before the burst mode would slow down (it would simply slow down to the speed of your memory card here - it wouldn't stop taking pictures).  This clarity of the pictures in burst mode is what made me choose the D200, and with the 18-70mm DX kit lens you'll get some brilliant photos.
While all three cameras let you take great picture, the D200 makes it very easy to change the most often used settings.  Picture quality (e.g. resolution and depth), White Balance and ISO can be changed by holding down a single button with your left hand and rotating the command dials with your right.  This means you don't have to take your eyes off of what you're looking at through the viewfinder in order to change these settings, and I find myself changing at least one of these on almost every picture I take.  To be sure, you can change them on the N50 and N70 as well, but just not as quickly or easily.
Other things I liked about the D200 are:
  o  Build.  It's made of metal and has a very nice heft to it.  The D50 and D70, much like my N80, are made of a very good plastic, and I've never had any problems with the N80, but the D200 just feels good
  o  LCD.  The 2.5 inch LCD makes it easy to determine whether or not you're happy with a picture in the field.
  o  Color.  The auto white balance for the D200 is awesome and the colors are brilliant.
  o  4 settings banks.  You can preprogram four settings (ISO, WB, Picture Quality, etc) so you can get to it quickly.
One last point - the D200 is very difficult to get a hold of these days, but it's slightly easier to get in kit form (which comes with a lens).  The 18-55mm lens is nice, but I prefer the 18-70mm (remember, with digitals you have to multiply the focal length by 1.5 to compare it with their film counterparts, so the 18-70 for digital is more like a 28-105 for film).  The 18-70mm kit will run you about $300 more than the body itself, and it's worth it.  
If you don't already have a big zoom lens then the new 18-200mm Nikon VR lens is awesome (equivalent to 28-300 for film).  It takes stunning pictures and has all the zoom you're likely to need.  It runs between $700 and $800 and is even harder to get than the D200 (which is why I don't have one yet :-).  
In summary, you can't go wrong with any of these Nikons.  The D200, however, is definitely the king of the hill.  Happy picture takine!