ID: B00006F2MI-R11ZXLO4RJ7XA-A1DHJ9HB0J4H8M
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Grind-Brushed-Chrome
ReviewerID: A1DHJ9HB0J4H8M
ReviewerName: Wouldnot Mislead
Date: June 29, 2007
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: The best coffemaker ever!
Content:
After reading all of the mixed reviews, I almost packed this one up and returned it.  I am glad I did not.  The prospect of having four star restaurant quality at home was at least worth a try and I was not disappointed.  I simply do not understand all of the other complaints.  I'll keep my critique of the negative reviews short and sweet. First people, thermal carafes are not see-through.  If you desperately need to know how much coffee is left in the pot, get another model.  Grinding whole coffee beans is not quiet.  Go to the supermarket and grind any bean you will find...it is loud.  If you think your coffee tastes great even though you haven't cleaned your pot in months, do not waste your money on this.  You need the fifteen dollar model at the discount store.  Finally, making a great cup of coffee is an art not a science.  So if you have a new coffeemaker, switch from pre-ground to whole bean, are trying a new brand or, use filtered water instead of the usual tap, whatever, you will find that you need to adjust your recipe until you get the usual taste that you love.  This may take a couple of brews but is no reason to berate a fine coffemaker.
Prior to purchasing this coffeemaker, I was the lone java drinker in the house.  No more!  The kids want to make iced beverages and cappucino, and my husband is drinking two cups a day.  My maiden brew was a pre-ground which by the way required no more extra cleaning than any other appliance.  The coffee was a flavored ground packet that I thought was a little stronger than I liked.  The next batch was my first whole bean brew which I thought was a little weak.  I then noticed I could add more beans (to the line at the brim of the bottom cup of the grinder) and voila! The best ever.  I use water from the refrigerator dispenser which is filtered and chilled.  It takes longer to brew but the effect on the taste is like the old fashioned percolators; rich and aromatic.  I have no problems with the grinder.  No clumps, clogs, overflows, nothing.  I, or others, park this carafe in no particular way on the plate and have had no spills. No,the plate does not heat up, but that makes no chance of scorched coffee taste. Hours later the coffee tastes great.  You can use this pot daily but you must make sure the oily residue that comes naturally from grinding the coffee beans is cleaned from the grinder.  I notice a residue sticks to the top cup of the grinder if you do not clean it.