ID: B000LC8YQE-R2OE6BZ50NCCJ2-A335ZXOVBZSM3Q
Category: MP3Players
Product: H2O-Audio-Wtrproof-Housing-iPod-Nano2ndG
ReviewerID: A335ZXOVBZSM3Q
ReviewerName: Texas Speedo "Texas"
Date: September 27, 2008
Helpful: 18 of 20
Rating: 1.0
Title: Waterproof Case -- Big, Bulky, Ugly and LEAKS!
Content:
Years ago, I used to swim with a Speedo waterproof radio.  It was OK, but the sound would cut out because radio waves don't penetrate water very well.  Also, it would only last for a month or so and then it or the speakers would fail.  Speedo Stopped making it, I guess because of all the complaints.  When I saw H2O's case for an iPod Shuffle, I thought that this would be the answer.  I already had a shuffle.  No radio waves to fade-- just digital music. Fantastic I thought.  So I bought a case.  First off, the instructions for its use have all kinds of WARNINGS and disclaimers that if the case leaks, H2O is not responsible for the loss of your iPod.  The instructions for its use are also complicated requiring a number of steps for proper use... testing, using repeated applications of silicone grease to seal the case -- on and on it goes... Just loading the iPod into the case is a real pain.  And then you have to take it out of the case (make sure your hands are dry or you can fry your iPod) to charge it and to load a new play list.  What a pain!  Then I find that I have to use the H2O headset with it and no other!  First, I think this is a real rip to make the device so that you can't use another headset and second, I can't stand the H2O headset.  Read the reviews all over the web.  They stink.  They don't keep the water out of your ears, they look like a head brace, they hurt to wear (the earbuds irritate and grind your ear canals) and to top it off, the sound quality is really really bad.  As other HONEST reviewers have stated, the H2O line of headsets suck.  Next, I go in the water with this bulky case strapped to my arm, and an orthopedic brace on my head and the 3rd or 4th time I use the thing IT LEAKS and fries my iPod!  Man, what a pain.  I just want to do my laps with some tunes!  Several weeks later, I see this guy at the pool jump into the water with his iPod Shuffle clipped to the back of his goggles WITH NO CASE!!!  I go over to his lane, and ask, "Is that Pod waterproof?"  He said, "Yeah, it's a Swimman waterproofed iPod Shuffle.  It works great."  He let me try it out.  Just fantastic.  Great sound quality, no water drag, easy to use, looks great just like a regular Shuffle.  I bought one a couple of months ago.  Totally satisfied.  I won't use anything else.  Further, if you read a review by someone who has not tried a Swimman, then it isn't a good review.  They just don't know what they are missing.