ID: B000696OIC-R33P158STUNVDD-A9IMFJYYCLOMQ
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: DeLonghi-DCM485-Thermal-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A9IMFJYYCLOMQ
ReviewerName: Phantom Chef
Date: June 11, 2007
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 3.0
Title: Keep your receipt
Content:
I loved this coffee maker when I first bought it.  The coffee always stayed hot with the thermal caraffe, it's a good looking, stainless steel unit, and it seemed to make a good cup of coffee.  I've recently read from other reviewers how they didn't think it brewed it strong enough, but I think that can be based upon the beans used, the strength dial on top of the unit, and the drinkers own taste.  Same as any other coffee maker.
Well, I started to run into problems.  My biggest complaint was the caraffe.  When you get down to the last 3 or 4 cups, it tends to pour all over the counter or table, so I always had to pour over the sink.  The first few cups were fine, but you have to pour with a steady, slow, even pour.  If you try to pour it fast, it will spill everywhere.
My next problem was finding the filters.  I ended up ordering it from one place on the net, that was in Ohio or something.  I couldn't find them anywhere else.  Not even Starbucks, which is where I bought the unit.
My last incident, involved their customer service.  My unit died on me.  It is within the warranty period, however, like most people, I do not hold on to receipts for years at a time.  Their customer service agent told me that they knew of "very few people who don't hold onto receipts."  Come on, are they real?  I hold on to it for big ticket items, but sometimes receipts just get lost.  It took a week to get any sort of response out of them, and they told me that based upon the serial number, it was out of warranty.  That's from when they shipped it to Starbucks.  No one can say how long Starbucks, or Amazon for that matter, keeps these on the shelves or their warehouses.  I aruged that I had sent in the product registration card, but was prmptly told that they were just for marketing, and had no bearing upon warranty.  How wonderful for them.
So, bottom line is, I have a $150 piece of garbage sitting around, and their customer service isn't helpful at all.  In one last attempt, I found the date of purchase on my bank statement, which is usually all I wait for on receipts, to make sure my bank isn't in error.  I found it, and I gave Starbucks a call to see if they could print a duplicate receipt for me, so I could get it fixed with Delonghi.  The manager at Starbucks told me to bring my statement and the old coffee maker in, and they'll exchange it for something else, no questions asked.  Nice of them, eh?