ID: B00063G0BO-R1UO2N670MHYKD-A2DLKDMOI7FLTM
Category: MP3Players
Product: iAudio-U2-Digital-Music-Player
ReviewerID: A2DLKDMOI7FLTM
ReviewerName: Ken Haggerty
Date: March 25, 2005
Helpful: 36 of 39
Rating: 3.0
Title: The Perfect Player......with One Big Flaw
Content:
The iAudio U2 is truly a stunning player; its sleek and "elegant" design is sure to capture the eye of any passer-by.  The player itself is a flash device, meaning it has no moving parts, so it's great for running and won't skip; this also means that it is so small that it can be worn around the neck like a pendant.  The player itself has a built in FM radio with FM recording, microphone, LCD, clock with alarms, and a very good navigation system which can order songs and folders in a variety of ways (not just alphanumerically).  It also functions as a storage device for transferring files and even comes with a small USB attachment.  It has a built-in battery which, when it dies after 2-3 years, can be replaced by JetAudio for $40.  You can even personalize the start-up animation with whatever you want.  This portable player has received rave reviews and comes at a very good price, with enough space to carry around a good amount of music.
However, perfection always has a flaw, and in this case, the flaw is something which cannot be overlooked.
The iAudio U2, though as perfect of a player as it is, has major compatibility issues.  I have done much research on the issue, and it seems that iAudio U2 is not compatible with ANY major online music store; that includes such stores as RealPlayer (my favorite) and MusicMatch.  There has been a great number of complaints regarding this at the Cnet.com forums.  I also checked the website for both Real and Musicmatch and the iAudio U2 is not listed as a supported device for either.  Since I enjoy downloading single tracks without buying the whole CD, this was a major drawback.
In all, the iAudio U2 is an excellent player with horrible compatibility.  If all of your music comes from CDs and you don't plan on downloading any tunes, then this is one of the best players on the market.  However, if you ARE going to download music, do not get this one.