ID: B000AQSMPO-R2F9DGNYE1IXCF-A21RK24YFL6XT6
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-B60-Special-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing
ReviewerID: A21RK24YFL6XT6
ReviewerName: just pixels
Date: October 17, 2006
Helpful: 18 of 22
Rating: 4.0
Title: convenience at a price
Content:
(I bought from Bed, Bath & Beyond; not Amazon.)
My wife and I only drink one cup a day and we have different preferences for flavor, caffination, etc.  So a single brew machine is ideal for us.  We're both very pleased with the taste and convenience of the B-60.  Because the cofee is brewed directly into the cup, there's no burned or "stale" taste from an automatic drip machine carafe/hotplate.  There's the great convenience of just pushing a button and simple clean-up.  The variety of K-cup coffees on the market easily meets our needs.
There are some drawbacks:  
1- The machine is relatively noisy.  Especially the "shuddering" sound of the pump.
2- The different cup size buttons (small, medium, travel) have no relationship to actual cups.  I've found it takes two "small" brewing cycles to fill my medium sized cup.
3- The K-cup coffee isn't widely available in stores.  I haven't seen K-cups in any supermarket.  A bed&bath chain store is the only nearby retailer and they only have a limited, barely adequate selection.  On-line there are many outlets and flavors but there's the added steps to find, buy, ship, wait, etc.
4- K-cup coffee is relatively expensive.  Amazon has the best price (if you  get free shipping).  The local retailer is $8 per box (as of 10/17/2006) if you use one of their ubiquitous 20% off coupons.  Several on-line venders are $10/box before shipping.  (For some reason, the Green Mountain Coffee factory store -- which is my commute to work -- tops the list at $14/box.  Maybe it's fresher there.)
5- It has a black, chrome industrial look that I find aesthetically unappealling.
I recommend this and similar Keurig coffee makers for those who want a convenient cup of good coffee and who don't mind some inconvenience when it comes time to buy more K-cups.