ID: B000SKQOSY-R2K7EFL4UBD57K-A34C5QX3CG3AO0
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-K100D-Digital-Camera-Reduction
ReviewerID: A34C5QX3CG3AO0
ReviewerName: Ronald Prettyman "Ronald Prettyman"
Date: November 18, 2007
Helpful: 6 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best Investment
Content:
Well I bought this little piece of heaven over the weekend. Not to brag, but a local Camera shop had the kit, with the lens and K100D body not the K110D body for 399.99 regular price, minus the 100 rebate the pentax offers on their website (store had no idea) that 300 bucks for this beauty. Now I'm not going to say where I bought just know that their recommend by Pentax's official website. 
So my review. It takes a little getting use to but this thing is amazing. I'm personal a no flash kinda guy and this thing really does an amazing job. It does fantastic at on night shots, and that what I live for with my camera. Capturing what I can't see (this guy also does great at capturing exactly what you seeing, its amazing" I do a white light adjustment and then figure out my exposure (I never trust the automatic and haven't tested it trial and error is the best way to go) and I'm getting unreal shot. My first run at night shots with this thing got me the shots I'll be sending out as christmas gifts this year.
My own mother found it hard to believe I took that shot, and thanx to walmart I've already gotten some excellent 8x10's and haven't even owned it for 48 hours yet. So GET THIS Baby, wether you buy it here (don't buy from walmart horrible shipping department) or Penn Camera, your shure to love your results once you get the basic down. Did I mention the top LCD that tells you your Exposure Appature battery meeter and two other things that I haven't figure out yet, and its got an excellent macro function, ok what are you waiting for buy this thing, and start shooting awesome pictures at a price no one is going to believe, (does better then my fathers Nikon D40 and my sisters Nikon D80 neither one believes what I paid and the quality) Also unlike nikon and cannon this supports all their previous lenes so lenes are easy to find and can be found at a steal. Not to mention this thing is made of Carbon something or other, its very solid....Also it has a built in CCD Cleaner, you just press a button and it makes some noice and shakes off the dust. EXCELLENT BUY a must have. If your looking at this, you should already be buying this.