ID: B00005IBX9-R3HBF9QY5197UQ-A2JSTTG4X63YD6
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1200-Central-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A2JSTTG4X63YD6
ReviewerName: Leonore Rodrigues "limr"
Date: June 10, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Whew!
Content:
I was nervous about buying any coffee machine because I'm very picky about coffee, and there are so many bad machines out there. Having lived in Europe, I am used to strong, robust coffee and usually make it in a stove-top espresso maker or French press. I also often have coffee Turkish style. All this means, drip coffee makers usually signify weak, watery brown water that's vaguely coffee-flavored for me. For all of these reasons, I am extremely pleased that this machine turned out so well. The filter helps keep the water tasteless so it doesn't affect the taste of the coffee, and the temperature is hot enough that it can extract flavor from the grounds effectively. Normally in drip machines, the water is not hot enough so to get any kind of flavor, I would need extra coffee but then it would turn out too bitter. This machine produces good, full-bodied coffee with the "proper" amount of grounds. Yay! Favorite features: water filter and gold-toned filter, adjustable heat for the plate, automatic on/off programming, and of course, the best feature of all is the good coffee!
I read almost every review before I ordered this machine and what I'll say about some of the negatives I read is that I never ever experienced any sort of water overflow or detached handle or anything. I really don't know how there could be that much water overflow unless it's user error or a defective machine. I have barely even gotten even random drips! As for the water well, I suppose it could be a little awkward if you're not tall to be able to see into the well to measure your water, but just use the carafe to measure and then just pour it in. So so simple. Just read the directions and use some common sense!
I waited for a while to post a review and if I had written this last week, I probably would have given it 3 stars, thinking that it was pretty decent. Then I visited a friend for a week and was reminded just how bad other machines could be - and I'm not talking about a $15 Mr.Coffee! This was a higher end machine. I couldn't get a good cup of coffee out of it for the entire week. I came home, made a pot in my Cuisinart and was struck by just how much better the coffee was.
I'd probably give it a 5-star, but I don't for the sole reason that I still, ultimately, prefer my cafetiere, French press, or Turkish cezve, but for those early mornings when I want to wake up to a pot of coffee already made, or when I just need quantity as well as quality, this machine is fantastic.