ID: B000G9WK8K-R2TS63QBEBX5FI-AC4XV78EJG1QB
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Bunn-BXB-10-Cup-Professional-Brewer
ReviewerID: AC4XV78EJG1QB
ReviewerName: Anne
Date: November 10, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Coffee--Great Coffee Maker--some tips...
Content:
I read a lot of reviews before I purchased my coffee maker from Amazon.  I am glad I did.  It's a funny thing to me, but often simpler is better.  There is no water filter to mess with and have to change out.  There is no grinder attached.  It is simply a coffee maker that makes good coffee.  Before I bought this machine, I called Bunn's customer service to ask some questions.  The gal I talked to was so helpful--her help alone sold me on the machine!  
This is what I learned:
1) Use only Bunn coffee filters.  They have higher sides and will keep the grounds from ending up in the coffee.  You can buy them online at Amazon, the Bunn Gourmet website, or at Walmart in the store if you need them today.  We make really strong coffee, so I have to put more grounds in the basket.  The filters are really important.
2) The regular sprayhead does make the coffee go through really fast.  If you call Bunn's customer service and tell them what model you have, they will send you a slower sprayhead for free.  No charge.  The customer service gal asked me which model I was going to buy and sent the sprayhead even before I had placed my order on Amazon!  The slower sprayhead is also helpful if you have hard water, I believe she said--  The slower sprayhead is helpful for us because it takes longer for the water to go through the grounds, which makes the coffee stronger and it keeps the water from overflowing the full basket of grounds it has to go through.
3) Use filtered water from your sink or fridge in the coffee maker.
4) Bunn makers make a 5 oz. cup of coffee so adjust your ratios according to how strong you like your coffee.  (My old Krups was a 4 oz. cup)
Because we like such strong coffee, we can only make about 8 5-oz. cups at a time because I can't fit any more grounds in.  But, I don't mind.  That's as much as our Krups 10 cup made and the coffee is great and hot!  
Bunn has the right idea--I think.  They simplified things.  Less things to break and just what is needed to do the job right!