ID: B00086HTP0-R2PP4PD3H3ZTQX-A368GDMPCMW9GQ
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Zen-Micro-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A368GDMPCMW9GQ
ReviewerName: Jill
Date: January 6, 2006
Helpful: 19 of 21
Rating: 1.0
Title: Give it a month or two...
Content:
I opened up my zen micro and I thought it was AMAZING.  It is small, light weight, cool touchpad, and I thought it was perfect.  I had read the reviews about how after a few months of use the headphone jack would kind of give out, and you would only be able to hear one frequency.  I thought that I would be careful enough, and this problem wouldn't happen to mine.  WRONG.  I was so careful with my player.  I had it in a case, I carried it carefully, I didn't put in my pockets, I never dropped it, etc.  5 months after having it, the headphone jack went bad, and now I have to jiggle it to find the perfect position so that I can hear.  Its not the headphones, I replaced those and still had the same problem.  Then a couple months after the headphone jack initially went bad, the player started acting really annoying. It would randomly turn on, and I would go to use it and the battery would be dead because it had been playing while I was away.  ANNOYING!  Then, it got so bad, that it would randomly turn on, I would turn it off, then it would turn on again, and so on.  Now, I have to take the battery out just to turn it off, and I keep it out until I'm ready to use it.  What a HASSLE.  I figured out that it has something to do with the headphone jack, which is right next to the on off switch.  I think inside the player, the headphone jack is rubbing up against the on off switch which causes it to turn on.  So, taking the headphones out of it when its not being used does help a little, but thats kind of annoying to have to do, and I think it losens the jack even more, which in turn, makes it worse when you want to listen to it.  This player also locks up every once in a while, which means you have to take the battery out, put it back in, and wait for it to do its thing and get back to normal.  You can definitely get a much better player for just a few bucks more, and I would definitely recommend doing so.  I wouldn't base your decision on the reviews by the people who just got their Zen Micro a few days ago, or even a few weeks ago, because as I said, its a pretty good player the first couple months.  Don't buy this player!