ID: B000FFQ4TG-R3PXA5DHGUNGAO-A2XBYKGP936LUB
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: NHBX-B-Contemporary-10-Cup-Coffee-Brewer
ReviewerID: A2XBYKGP936LUB
ReviewerName: Rarkm "rarkm"
Date: August 25, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Worth it.
Content:
Our old coffeemaker started dying on us a few months ago. It started leaking onto the counter unpredictably, and was a PITA to clean. It was located at the back of a kitchen counter under a cupboard, and filled through a grate in the back, which meant pulling the whole thing out, pouring water through the grate and pushing it back in again. It was impossible to fill without some water splashing on the counter. When it was brewing it made loud gurgling noises and emitted steam (which was ruining the finish on the cupboard above it.) Coffee was ok, nothing spectacular. It had a clock and a lot of buttons, including a timer. We hated it.
I had heard a lot of favorable comment about Bunn, and after reading the comments here, I ordered this model in white (it's about $[...] more expensive, but I like the look better).
http://www.amazon.com/NHBX-W-Contemporary-10-Cup-Coffee-Brewer/dp/B000FFILQU/ref=sr_1_2?ie=UTF8&s=home-garden&qid=1251247063&sr=8-2.
 There were no surprises -- it makes a full pot of excellent coffee, fast, in 3 minutes. Because it holds heated water all the time, instead of heating it during the brewing cycle, it is able to do that. (Time your conventional coffeemaker some time). Some commenters have worried that it wastes a lot of energy keeping the water hot. I examined it during an active heating cycle (the cold water you add to start the brewing cycle gets heated but it's not the water that goes into the pot). There was no place on it that was more than somewhat warm (except for the fresh pot of coffee, of course). That seems to indicate that it is pretty well insulated so energy costs are likely fairly low.
It makes terrific coffee, clean and tasty, from ordinary fresh ground beans. I haven't tried brewing anything exotic yet, but I imagine that will taste even better. I use one heaping tablespoon of beans for every two "cups" of water in the decanter, plus one, finely ground (but not powder). I'm sure you already know this, but a 10 cup coffee maker actually makes only 5 regular mugs of coffee. However coffee makers still use the volume of the old fashioned cup and saucer as the standard for a "cup". You may prefer stronger coffee, use more beans, YMMV.
It doesn't splash during filling, it doesn't leak. It doesn't make rude noises during brewing (it's almost silent, in fact).
So far, I like it.
UPDATE (9/27/2009): Still like it a lot, and I continue to be impressed by the build quality. The brewing speed is impressive. What turned out to be far more handy than I thought it would be is the 24/7 availability of hot brewing water for tea, other beverages and other needs. Just fill the carafe at least 4 cups full (minimum brew capacity) and (checking to make sure the filter holder is empty and washed), pour into the top, put the carafe back and close the lid. No getting out a pot or microwave container, punching buttons etc.
Additionally, for some reason, preparing it to make coffee seems simpler to be less trouble any previous brewer I'v owned. Not sure why that is -- but the design is obviously well thought out so the filter holder comes out easily, fills easily and replaces easily. Since you don't pour the water into the machine until you're ready to brew, you don't have to worry about it when you're setting up, but I pre-fill the carafe the night before so that all I have to do the next morning is pour it into the top, replace the carafe and close the brewing lid. All the same, when you do pour, the water goes in without splashing instead of all over the counter -- there are nicely designed vanes that direct the water you pour INTO the coffee maker, rather than all over the general neighborhood.
The Bunn engineers are obviously coffee fanatics AND human design product freaks; it shows in the design, which shows a lot of thought and product testing. Nice product.