ID: B000AAWEJU-R1DJF2IWJ2RU4E-A1R7JYPQWEXMYT
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-Carina-Canister-Vacuum-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1R7JYPQWEXMYT
ReviewerName: D. Michael Sanford "Book Monger"
Date: June 4, 2008
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Vacuumus Magnus
Content:
I have always said to my kids: "You will always pay more for the best."  This is true for the Miele vacuum.  Unfortunately, we didn't always follow that credo with our vacuum cleaners.  We have owned: Kirby, the Original Electrolux, Rainbow (what a joke), and several newer Kenmore's and a Dyson which is still the best sweeper on the market.
But the Miele is by far the best canister vacuum on the market, bar none.  Some off the reviewers have said that it is not a complete vacuum meaning that it does not come complete with a beater brush which its does not.  You will have to purchase it separately at approximately $120.  It is also NOT an electric beater brush but one that operates off of the vacuum from the vacuum's line.  Even then, the Miele is still the best canister vacuum out there.
If you have a lot of rugs, then this model is not for you.  You will need to purchase one with an electric beater brush and that system will definitely set you back some cash; is it worth it?  Heck yes it is.
We have about 80% hard floors (ceramic, wood) the rest is rugs or throw rugs.  The beater brush is plenty for what we have.
The disposables are also pricey, but last forever and you will not smell or see dust after you vacuum your dusty house.
We also purchased one of the accessory sets when we bought the unit.  They work well on small projects like:auto's, blinds and smaller items like computer keyboards, pet cages and refrigeration coils.  The kits are well worth the money and come in a nice carry case.
The other great thing is that the unit is incredibly light and pulls very easy even on carpet.  And at 1200 watts, it is offering the most power output you can get out of a 110 volt circuit.
I can't promise that a Miele vacuum will be the last one you'll every purchase, but it will come close.
Cons: the power cord can sometimes be too short in some situations, much shorter than the Dyson which can almost reach next door to your neighbors house.