ID: B000V5P90K-R1M4YLP2V34CTA-A2UQK3DAZ8NO2T
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-40D-10-1MP-Digital-Body
ReviewerID: A2UQK3DAZ8NO2T
ReviewerName: Hiram Grant "just call me Sam"
Date: September 2, 2007
Helpful: 132 of 165
Rating: 5.0
Title: Hands-on first impressions...
Content:
Canon's new cameras at this level are often criticized as "merely an upgrade".  This stems from two facts, Canon wishes to produce a desirable camera at a reasonable price, and they are starting from a pretty solid base.  Yet if you look deeper, the 40D is the most significant upgrade in the 10D, 20D, 30D line.  Of course, most things are much like the previous cameras.  As far as size and weight, it's very similar, although I thought the grip improvements made the camera fit a little better in my hands.  (I did not have an optional grip to try on the camera).
Most of the hype will be on the upgrade to 10 megapixels and the 3" LCD with "Live View".  While the former may be criticized as merely catching up to the XTi and competition, we must not overlook the 14-bit processing.  This is a huge boost in image capability if used properly.  Those that shoot RAW, and those that understand the desirability of the "Hightone Priority", will gain the most benefit.  The LCD upgrade is handy, especially combined with its greater color range, but "Live View" without autofocusing my not be that beneficial to most.  However, something very interesting for some is "PC Live", which allows the user to connect to a computer, view the image live on that computer, and operate the camera (including focus) remotely from the computer.
While the AF improvements usually get second billing, this may actually be the biggest benefit to sports photographers (although the boost to 6.5 fps is welcome).  The 30D only used a cross-basis system at the center point, where the 40D uses this system at all nine positions.  This should greatly improve the off center speed and accuracy.  Additionally, the center point (the most often used) has been boosted in performance.
The viewfinder has been increased in magnification, which should be welcomed to all.  But people who must use eyeglasses should be amazed at the viewfinder being both larger and better eye relief (meaning they will be able to see the viewfinder better, even though their eyeglasses push their eye further back).
Durability has been improved (including extending the internal metal chassis inside the grip) making a good design even better.  The sensor cleaning filter is also welcome.
Images look sharp, but I haven't really put the continuous AF (Servo) to a real sports challenge (just cars down a city street).  Additionally, I don't have any real feedback on high ISO shooting, although Canon has traditionally done well here.
Comparisons to the competition are everywhere.  Image quality wise, the 14-bit processing and hightone control can come in handy for more critical users vs. all other 10 megapixel cameras that are cheaper.  For sports guys, the 6.5fps comes cheap, as $1,000 will only get you 3fps.  Only the Pentax K10D comes close in build quality, under $1 grand.
As of this writing, Nikon has introduced, but is not close to shipping, the D300.  On paper, it's all of the 40D and more (12 megapixel, higher quality LCD, more AF points), but at a price rumored to be $1,800-$2,000, body only.  Additionally, Sony will soon have a higher end product.  Will they have enough more to justify the price?  Your call.