ID: B0001FQU8U-RTXXNQ5VXJSLF-AE7GGSUGYLIKM
Category: AirConditioners
Product: Kenwood-KW85-Portable-Air-Conditioner
ReviewerID: AE7GGSUGYLIKM
ReviewerName: Alessandra
Date: July 16, 2004
Helpful: 104 of 106
Rating: 2.0
Title: Gorgeous looking addition to room, but weak cooling ability
Content:
If only this gorgeous looking air conditioner could really cool a room!!  I am so in love with the stunning sleek design and shiny bright white color. Very simple and professional looking.  Sturdy build.  Not cheap looking, like others I have seen at Home Depot and Sam's Club.I bought this for my apartment.  It has 8500 BTU.  I planned to use it in the living room (13x15 or 208 square feet) during the day, and then the bedroom at night (a bit smaller).  I opened the package immediately the night I brought it home, but once I turned the power on for the first time, I was surprised that high power, turned to be little more than a feeble blowing of air.  This weak fan, does not allow any of the cold air to actually push out of the unit and cool the room!!!  Even if you stood 2 feet from it, it barely blew on you!!!  Who would engineer such a thing?   The real test was the next day, when temperatures outside soared to 93 degrees.  My unit could not manage to make the room cooler than 88 degrees for the entire day!  I decided to give it another day (maybe it need to be broken in, I thought), but again it was did the same thing.  So disappointing that such a sleek looking and digital panneled portable a/c could disappoint like this.  I read the entire manual, hooked it up properly and even called the company, Kenwood.  Kenwood didn't really care.  They told me it is discontinued and to just return it!!  With all the terribly ugly looking portable units out there, I had really wanted this to be my new a/c, but I will have to look elsewhere, and this time for something having perhaps 12000 BTU and a fan that blows like a tornado!  Please, someone, design a beautiful looking portable a/c for far under $600 that works! What a pain.  I hate the thought of lugging this 80 plus pound machine back to the store.