ID: B000VDQ38E-R1912WMC92Y6Z4-A3Q3X42NI9HGJF
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A3Q3X42NI9HGJF
ReviewerName: Kyle Weiss "Thought Traumanatrix, Opinionated...
Date: June 21, 2008
Helpful: 24 of 29
Rating: 1.0
Title: Gimmicky, cheap, average performance.
Content:
For some reason, in our cheap disposable society, vacuums have suffered the most.  Even as recently as five or six years ago, we can see definitive manufacturing differences between vacuums compared then and now, side by side.  
Sure, there's new toys, innovations, magic, unicorns, leprechauns, voodoo, whatever it is they decide to paste in vinyl stickers on the side.
Or in the Bissell Pet Hair Eraser, a cute true story of some adopted dog...?  
Nay, it was the lint brush bumper that folds down on the front, the strange rubberized cleaning gear with small rubber fingers all over them, and the seemingly good reviews on Amazon.com, and local retail websites.
It had an advantage over an older Hoover bagged 18.5 amp... thing.  That part isn't important.  It was a holdover when touting as much "AMPS!" as possible was the selling point.
We don't own dogs, or cats, or camels.  We have a chinchilla.  She produces enough hair to satisfy our cleaning madness.  It's very, very fine hair, and thusly, we feel, challenges ANY so-called "pet" vacuum.  
Here's a comprehensive "Pros" and "Cons," even from a relatively negative viewpoint.  I'll be as fair as possible:
Pros:
-----
*  Cute back story of nice dogs featured on the box.
*  Heavy!  What a quality machine! *cough*
*  Nice, heavy, large-diameter accessory hose.
*  Maneuverable considering the size and dimensions.
*  Fun to watch the crap fly around in the container as you use it.
*  Multiple filtration levels.
*  Agitator brush that will eat anything in it's path.  And does.
*  Convincingly wonderful accessories.
Cons:
-----
*  Heavy!  But why?  The suction isn't that spectacular.
*  Floor height adjuster design... it... doesn't... work.  At all.
*  Lint brush hinged... thing...whatever it is... at the front is basically useless, and just prevents you from getting against walls and elsewhere to clean.  
*  Rubber accessories statically pick up pet hair, and that's about it.  Then it stays there.  Then you clean it off yourself.  Meaning, the vacuum doesn't really get it.  
*  Suction wand tapers at tip... does this fare well for maximum "breatheability?" I wonder. 
*  Cup capacity... yes CUP, not container, far too small.
*  Simply awful design of cup mentioned above.  Screws with washers slide   against a plastic wedge as you "lock" into place, and after two locks/unlocks, was causing plastic shavings to develop.  That means, eventually, the metal will shave the plastic to the point where it won't seal, and you get to enjoy your dirt all over again.  More vacuuming!  Joy!
So yeah, even inspecting them in person at (Best-Mart), we went with popular public opinion and look where it got us.
Evidently vacuums... well, nowadays, suck.  Okay, everyone has used that line.  Fine.  Really, even spending $500 seems to not get you a decent vacuum as Dyson has shown the world.
We ended up with the Hoover Elite Auto-Rewind, which looks like it has two speakers on the side.  Which sadly, it doesn't.  But it works well!  And there isn't gimmicky crap getting it the way.  
This vacuum might be someone's dream, it wasn't ours.  Do your consumer duty, think for yourself, be skeptical, check design and function diligently, and beware stupid stories and useless add-ons.
KW