ID: B0001H6DMQ-R7512I8KWN0WK-A12J9F6S7MWN06
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3755-Bagless-WindTunnel-Canister
ReviewerID: A12J9F6S7MWN06
ReviewerName: K. Matthews "HawaiiMermaid"
Date: September 12, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 3.0
Title: Power Switch Failure After a Few Months
Content:
This is my first canister vac, and I was truly impressed with its performance compared to any upright I had previously used; including Dysons.  While it takes a bit of time to get used to dragging around the canister, I'm not sure if I would ever go back to an upright due to the increased power and obvious results.  I was amazed as to how much more this would pick-up, and shocked that I had been living with a carpet that could have held so much 'dirt'!  
With the plus side being said, my three stars are based on the product itself; the Power Switch on the handle started failing within a few months.  I read previous reviews on this product and many stated that it's important to make sure the container is emptied often to keep it from overheating, so I would do so after every one or two rooms.  The Switch issue wasn't a part of overheating, but when I would turn it back on after emptying the bin, it wouldn't start.  Or, it would start and the brush wouldn't activate.  Well, it's gotten to the point where I've learned to live with it, but I feel it was far to soon for it to fail. It's rather frustrating at times. 
I have had no issues with it overheating, and the attachments work fine.  I really like the extension of the wand for the out-of-reach places, while maintaining power and suction. The length of the cord is perfect, and the auto-retract feature is wonderful.  If there wasn't the issue with the power switch, I would have given it a 4 to 5-star rating. 
One feature I would like to see is that the unit should not power-on if the bin isn't in place properly.  If it's not fully in place it will still power on, and there's not much of a difference in sound for you to realize it's not working properly because the bin isn't properly connected.