ID: B000ETXOC8-R30CM8N8ZL6DMJ-A2PV9ETR11CQZI
Category: MP3Players
Product: SanDisk-Sansa-Player-microSD-Expansion
ReviewerID: A2PV9ETR11CQZI
ReviewerName: GSC
Date: June 15, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 3.0
Title: Not Mac Compatible
Content:
I purchased this neat little product at another vendor as a refurb. at a very low price. I failed to read the system requirements and when I got it I was disappointed to read that it only worked with Windows. I figured I could  just plug it in and drop and drag the songs. Wrong! It will not mount on the desktop. I searched the Sandisk web site and the web hoping to find some software to use to get it to mount on my G4 Mac. No dice. Even using the disk Utility would not get it to mount and show up on the desktop. I set it to the MSC USB mode and rebooted the Sansa and the computer and nothing works. So I gave up after spending hours on it. I can drop and drag songs to the SD card and play them, but it is very fussy about which songs it will play. When it finds a song it doesn't like, it says "bad song" and freezes up and I then have to reboot it and it keeps trying to play the bad song and I go through the same thing until I remove the SD card and reboot it. You need to make sure you only put MP3 songs on the SD card.
Otherwise I like this little device very much. I just wished that Sandisk would support the Mac. I bought this because it had the features that I wished the iPod had such as an SD card expansion slot, FM radio and recording, and voice recording, all with a user replaceable battery. I have an iPod Nano and love it. This player does not compare to the iPod in regards to screen quality or menu and navigation and especially the high quality screen and fit and finish. However what it does, it does very well. Sound quality is excellent in both Music, sound recording and FM reception IMHO. The back is a dull aluminum gray finish and doesn't scratch or show fingerprints as easily as the iPod does, but when holding it in your hands for a while it gives your hands a metallic odor and the screen scratches just as easily as the iPod does so I recommend a case for this player. The other disadvantage over the iPod as I see it is the navagation wheel is mechanical instead of touch sensitive as the iPod is and I can see major problems with dirt, dust, sand or water getting into the device. I would like to use this at the beach, but if sand or water got into the wheel, it would probably destroy it. 
If it worked on my Mac, I would have given it a higher score. Overall, I am very happy with the sound quality of the music, FM, and recording and for the price I paid, it was an amazing buy. I can learn to live with the limitations and work around not being able to set up a play lists like the iPod has, but with the SD card expansion slot, at least I can load music on this player as long as they are MP3 songs. Maybe SanDisk will write some software to allow one to use this with a Mac, but I won't hold my breath Just imagine how many of these players they could sell if they did! By the way, the best place to purchase MP3 music is at Amazon since they do not use DRM and use 256 bits and they cost less and often give away free songs. 
If anyone knows how to get this to work with a Mac please post a reply here. I hope this review helps other Mac users who might want to purchase this player.
Thanks