ID: B000BHIHKC-R1RGHIZ0HF0PWF-A3AU5NOWVC9LB7
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-GT300-Home-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3AU5NOWVC9LB7
ReviewerName: Mark P. Deroller "marky mark"
Date: December 28, 2005
Helpful: 24 of 25
Rating: 4.0
Title: First single-serve pod coffemaker, impressed!
Content:
UPDATE AFTER A YEAR (1/2/06): I have been using this coffee maker for a year now.  No problems with the machine.  It has performed flawlessly.  I follow the maintenance schedule which basically entails running a 50/50 white vinegar/water solution through the maker roughly every 30 cups.  This is to prevent scale build-up.  I didn't do it every 30 cups.  I've run over 200 cups of coffee through this and have done the maintenance 3 times.
The primary reason I prefer this maker over the Senseo maker is the fact that it was almost designed for my Black and Decker 14 oz travel mug which fits nicely underneath; the Senseo is too short.
I have narrowed my preferences for coffee down to the Senseo brand of coffee.  The medium roast is my favorite.
For those people who did not like this coffee maker because of a plastic taste in there coffee, I can say that 2 things could cause this:
1. Leaving water in the plastic water tank for an extended period of time.  I always use fresh cold water straight from the water filter.
2. Make sure you are using a fresh coffee pod or pods (for 14 oz mugs).  Reusing a pod, or trying to use just one pod for 14oz will water down the taste considerably.
ORIGINAL REVIEW (12/28/05): Received this for Christmas from my wife.  I upgraded from a B&D "Brew N' Go" single serve coffeemaker, and can use the same travel mug with the Home Cafe.  The main reason my wife chose the B&D over the Senseo was the fact that my travel mug fits easily in the B&D model.  I understand this particular model is a redesign of another B&D model which received horrible reviews.  In my opinion it's always a good thing to get the "2nd generation" as all the bugs have been worked out.
I am impressed with the ease of use, including how fast it makes a cup of coffee, and how easily it cleans up.  I also prefer the taste of the coffee over my old maker.  The coffeemaker itself is not too big, and the water reservoir holds enough water to last me a couple days.
If you're like me, you need more than just a cup of coffee in the morning, you have to have a GOOD cup of coffee.  At some point I'll know which pods I like best as there are a number of different pod brands out there.  The manual says only to use Folgers or Millstone brand (don't like the taste of either), but from what I've read elsewhere it doesn't make a difference which brand you use as long as the pods are the correct size.  
The cheapest pods I've found online are the Senseo brand which run roughly 20 cents per pod.  Ultimately you weigh taste with price, and you decide which is more important.
Overall I am very happy with the B&D Home Cafe.