ID: B0001A99LK-R2VPMC2ADZB39K-A38U2M9OAEJAXJ
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-mini-M9435LL-MODEL
ReviewerID: A38U2M9OAEJAXJ
ReviewerName: The Groove
Date: February 23, 2005
Helpful: 11 of 12
Rating: 3.0
Title: Recommended, but With a Few Caveats.
Content:
When Apple launched its aggressive marketing campaign for the iPod, I reacted with a degree of resistance. Why bother getting an iPod? I own hundreds of CDs, and the disc player I already have is fine as it is. But once I got my hands on the mini, it instantly changed the way I listen to music. The iPod mini is a nice way to listen to/store your favorite tunes, and it deserves both praise and criticism. 
THE PROS? 
It's easy to install. All you have to do is recharge your iPod mini, connect it to your computer, transfer your music library on your hard drive to iTunes (which you will need to install either from the website or the enclosed CD), and you're ready to play your iPod. It's that simple. If a dolt like me can operate this thing, so can you. 
Store up to 1,000 tunes. But that figure assumes that the average song you load is 4 minutes long. Because I like to listen to a lot of extended dance remixes that are 6 minutes or longer, I really have only 700 tunes max on my iPod. Still, that's a lot of music to carry. 
Easy to carry and you'll look cool. The iPod mini is my new buddy at the gym, where almost everybody has one. With the right accessories (sold separately), you can clip it to your pants, wear it with an arm wrist, or carry it in the palm of your hand while running. 
THE CONS? 
Flimsy headphones. The iPod mini has decent sound quality, but you wouldn't know it by using the headphones, which deliver a thin and hollow sound. Not only that, but one of the speakers has already blown out after only a week's worth of use. Apple should be ashamed of themselves for manufacturing such weak headphones. 
8 hour battery life? I don't think so! Battery life is such a controversial issue with the iPod, because so many people have claimed that it's much less than 8 hours. If you don't use the click wheel and keep the volume at a low level, then I'm sure you may get 8 hours if you're lucky. But I like to turn up the bass on mine, use the equalizer, and set the volume relatively high - all of which gave me a battery life of only 3 hours. So, the more features you use on your iPod mini, the less likely you'll get anything close to 8 hours. (Note: the new iPod minis now have a battery life of up to 18 hours, which is more than double that of the one I currently have)
THE BOTTOM LINE: 
All in all, I like and recommend the iPod mini to anyone with a fairly large CD collection and an up-to-date computer. But it comes with its flaws so consumers should be advised before jumping in. And depending on how often you listen to music, you way want to skip this and get the 20GB, the new 30GB iPod photo or even the 40GB for just a few dollars more. Overall, it gets my green light.