ID: B00008UI0R-R1JWWCPHNJ7QN6-A2AMQTBGXNX6WU
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A2AMQTBGXNX6WU
ReviewerName: S. Mclain
Date: January 16, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: Purchased 12/06 and I will be purchasing another
Content:
I purchased my vacuum 3 years ago.  The suction on my present vacuum isn't like it used to be, but I will never the less be purchasing another of the same withing the next month or so.  And I'll have spare parts to boot for the new one.
Pros - Good suction (up until about 6 months ago), no bags to purchase (I empty before each use and it's no big deal, good price, storage is easy because of small size, tools are adequate and store on the canister, I like being able to clean the canister occasionally with soap and water, I keep a spare filter that can also be washed with a high power stream of water, is great on carpets, very light weight, extendible wand is nice for ceiling and behind furniture. It is one of the better vacuumes I have used for pet hair (2 shedding pooches), both power heads get the hair up quickly and can get under beds and furniture.  Noise is average.  I abused it for a couple of months by using it to vacuum the traffic mats in the garage (we live on a working farm with lots of dirt).  This is probably why it isn't working as well. Another plus is that I got free shipping.
Cons - I had to replace the motor belt 3 or 4 times. When it gets stretched out it constantly slips off and I have to take the powerhead apart and put the belt back on until the new belts arrive in the mail (keep a couple on hand and you won't have this problem).  It could be better on hard floors.
I've owned many types of vacuumes including upright hoovers, orecks, rainbows, dirt devil's, sears and others.  Canisters are my favorite, they all go downhill suction wise after a few years and for the money I can't beat this model.  The only other canister vacuume I would like to try is the Meile, but it costs more.