ID: B000GTR2F6-R2Y4AMS36VGEXQ-A1HBC0NBQJHT7X
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Platinum-Single-Cup-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: A1HBC0NBQJHT7X
ReviewerName: Bookphile
Date: August 7, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Made a coffee drinker out of me
Content:
I've long been a tea fanatic and had more or less given up coffee drinking once I finished up my college days.  I had an addiction to expensive lattes and though I have a nice espresso machine, cleanup was such a pain that I was usually happier to run out to my nearest coffee shop and spend $4 a cup.  Not any longer.
I admittedly bought this machine on something of a whim.  When I did drink coffee at home, I used a French press but this wasn't effective for entertaining so when I bought a house, I wanted a regular coffee maker.  I looked at a few different models but couldn't settle on anything.  What initially sold me on this machine was its ability to make iced beverages and the fact that it could purportedly make not only coffee, but tea and hot chocolate as well.
I've only owned the machine for a few weeks but, since then, I have been drinking at least two cups of coffee a day, something I never did before I owned it.  I simply love the iced drink feature and I enjoy my iced coffees so much that I've stopped making trips to the coffee shop.  While the K-cups aren't exactly economical, they are definitely a lot less expensive than a cup of your typical coffee shop coffee so I know that, in the long run, the machine will save me money.  
My favorite things about this machine are the ease of using the K-cups and the wide variety of coffees available.  I like to have a lot of different flavors and blends and my variety of K-cups takes up less space than buying bags of coffee would.  I also really like the idea that when I have company, I can set out my K-cup carousel (yes, I like my machine so much that I'm purchasing accessories for it) and they can select their own flavor and type of coffee.  I am also admittedly a coffee-making idiot and I never can seem to get the proportions right when I measure out ground coffee so I like that the machine takes that guesswork away.
As for tea, I've so far only tried the Bigelow organic green and it was decent but not a fabulous cup.  I'll have to try some other tea varieties but I suspect that I will likely use the machine only when I'm in a hurry and desperate for a cup of tea.  Otherwise, I'll likely stick to loose leaves and my adjustable water heater as this makes for a much better cup of tea.  On the hot chocolate front, I was a bit disappointed as well.  I initially tried using the second largest setting and this made for a very watery cup.  The taste is better on the smallest cup setting but the hot chocolate still needs to be stirred pretty vigorously so I'm not sure that making it in the Keurig is all that much more convenient than simply adding hot water to a packet.
I have to say that I've also noticed a sort of plastic tang to my water.  It wasn't as strong with the tea but was definitely noticeable with the hot chocolate and with hot coffee.  With the iced coffee, I don't notice it.  I'll probably try running the reservoir through my dishwasher (as the unit says that it is top-rack safe) and see if this solves that problem.
Overall, though, I am truly love this machine.  It was considerably more expensive than the other machines I was looking at but I feel it was money well-spent.