ID: B000V5P90K-R2CG42A74OBLJH-A3H5QRGQMLHP8Z
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-40D-10-1MP-Digital-Body
ReviewerID: A3H5QRGQMLHP8Z
ReviewerName: M. Marinkovich "ChaosShadow"
Date: August 29, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Photography With Ease!
Content:
I've wanted a D-SLR for the longest time, and I always knew Canon made some great cameras.  However, now that I've had this for over a month... the EOS 40D isn't just a great camera... it's amazing!
The pictures are outstanding (even in compressed mode!), and this bad boy is so easy to use.  I've never used an SLR camera prior to purchasing this (I'm a TOTAL novice here LOL), and in just a weeks time, I felt completely comfortable shooting pictures fully manual.
Features:
The 3" screen is awesome for quick reviewing pictures.  My friend has a 20D (I think it's only a 2" screen), and it's so difficult to tell whether or not the picture turned out good.
The AF on this is awfully quick, and really shines when shooting multiple frames per second.  I took my 40D to the zoo only days after having it, and my goodness... I couldn't believe the quality of the pictures.
Liveview is pretty cool... but I prefer using the viewfinder.  Much easier to tell if the picture is focused.
Battery life is great, and when it's time to recharge... it charges up pretty quick.
I definitely like the IS (Image Stabilizer) that's on the 28-135mm lens.  I have a pretty steady hand, so shooting pics at slower speeds still turn out great!
Comfort:
The camera seemed a little large at first... but I noticed it fit in my hands very well.  Another friend of mine has a Rebel XT... and I HATE it.  It's so small, my hands cramp up after using it for a few minutes.
Build Quality:
The camera feels very solid when holding it, which adds peace of mind as far as lasting a long time.
OVERALL:
I really feel that the novice photographer can enjoy this camera, and not feel intimidated with the amount of features it offers.  I'm sure the vets out there can REALLY appreciate what this camera can do.  I highly recommend this product!