ID: B000GTR2F6-R3JD467SXDUXD2-A2FCL5NJS1HPM
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Platinum-Single-Cup-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: A2FCL5NJS1HPM
ReviewerName: Carolyn Keiling
Date: November 6, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Wonderful for coffee and tea...not so much for hot cocoa.
Content:
I first bought a Keurig Brewer for my office. I loved it so much, I had to have one for my home also. It is perfect for a family. We don't all drink the same hot drinks. I like coffee, my teenage daughter prefers hot tea. My hubby's favorite is hot cocoa. The Keurig allows each of us to have the hot drink of our choice. 
The features I like on the B70: four choices of cup size, auto off, programable on and off times, and large water reservoir. The Keurig Brewer I have at my office is a smaller version. Would I again pay extra for the B70 to get a few more bells and whistles? Probably not. I am happy with the B40 at the office. I think as long as you buy a model with a water reservoir, you will be happy. I don't think, however, you will be happy with the smallest model where you have to add water each time you brew a cup of coffee. 
One disappointment we have is the way cocoa brews. It tends to come out weak. We opened a cup after it brewed and found most of the cocoa mix had not even gotten wet. My hubby brews his cocoa, then opens the cup and pours any extra powder or syrup into his cup. It's not much trouble, and he doesn't seem to mind the extra step, but I would. That is the reason I gave the machine 4 stars instead of 5. If you don't drink cocoa, consider this product a 5. 
Another thing, since we are making coffe, flavored teas, and cocoa all with the same machine, we brew a cup of hot water after each use to rid the machine of any left over flavors. Only takes a minute, and it keeps the brewer fresh for the next user. We use water filtered through a Brita filter in our Keurig. It's convenient to have a pitcher of filtered water sitting nearby the coffee brewer. 
I like the Keurigs so much, I plan to give several away to family and friends this Christmas!