ID: B000NVXF26-R14RFJNTVVLB82-A2I7I4RHGAK4RA
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Digital-Stabilization-14-42mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A2I7I4RHGAK4RA
ReviewerName: A. Gordon Pym
Date: June 18, 2008
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best Value in a DSLR Available Today
Content:
This camera does all the description says and more. If you are looking for your first DSLR, and are shopping around, stop now and purchase this camera.  I considered waiting for the 520, but the only new features I noticed on the mfg. page were "redesigned controls for people with certain types of color blindness" and the ability to remotely control flash units, neither of which I require. 
The photos I have taken over the last few weeks with this camera have more than justified the cost, and I am glad I didn't lose those photo opportunities by continuing to shop around and compare cameras.
The 510 takes amazing photos straight out of the box when set to Auto, and Manual shooting can be done with individual features, such as only the aperture setting being controlled manually, while the focus and ISO are controlled automatically, or the exposure can be controlled manually, with the aperture controlled automatically.  By working with only one variable at a time, learning to shoot with manual settings is fun and easy.
If you are uncertain about the 4/3rds format, be aware that this format is actually closer to standard print sizes, such as 8x10, than the standard format most digital cameras use.  You do not have to worry about having shots with odd looking aspect ratios.
The kit lenses are more than adequate, with the 150mm being great for wildlife photography.  Using the image stabilization feature, telephoto shots of the moon in which craters are clearly visible can be taken without a tripod.
Astrophotographers will like the option to leave the shutter open for 60 seconds, or up to 8 minutes with the optional remote control.
I have no negatives to report for this camera.  I suggest purchasing a starter filter kit such as this Hoya 58mm Introductory Filter Kit, UV, Circular Polarizer, 81A and Filter Wallet, or at least a U/V filter for each lens if for no other purpose than to protect it.  No extra battery should be required.  After four weeks and hundreds of photos, I have only charged my battery once.
For some examples of E-500 series photos, check out the Flickr group at http://www.flickr.com/groups/olympus_e500/