ID: B000J3HZ74-R3FH9MK55VIGF6-A2H5NGHUZK2IL9
Category: AirConditioners
Product: TN-12E-TechniTrend-000-BTU-Portable-Conditioner
ReviewerID: A2H5NGHUZK2IL9
ReviewerName: Dana "Dana"
Date: September 14, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: A cool and convenient relief on hot days
Content:
I've had this A/C for 2 years now and I LOVE IT. We use it during the summers to cool our large master bedroom which is very poorly insulated and has a huge window that faces west. We actually have two units which we use when temperatures are in the upper 90's to low 100's, one in each side of the large 3-paned sliding window. One is sufficient for temps in the upper 80's to lower 90's - two are required if the temp is above 95 outside since all that sun shines right into the window and the insulation of the house is poor. It's nice to know we can be comfortable in our bedroom when the rest of the house is still hot. If I didn't have the units running, my bedroom would easily reach 90+ degrees -this way it stays in the low 70's during the hottest hours of the day. 
The unit is easy to install into the window (our windows have screens which prevent the foam from falling backwards- without a window screen it would surely fall out - the foam is a bit of a pain but an optional window kit can be purchased which solves the problem of no screens, etc.-this unit works best with sliding windows); it can be rolled from room to room (it would roll more easily on bare floor than carpeting, but it's not that hard); and I love the features: remote control to change the temperature or turn the unit on/off; timer to control when the unit will shut off automatically; and the pleasant sound it makes. It actually lulls me to sleep at night. I use it as a fan, also, on days when it's not as hot - I set the timer and have the fan on with the windows open for a few hours - it then shuts off automatically after we've fallen asleep - we love that! 
To empty the unit I put a shallow dish (a plastic tray) under the spout in the back and empty the water into the tray and then pour that water into a large bowl. It's no big deal and only takes a couple of minutes. I empty the unit every evening during the summer. I tip the unit back a bit to get all the water out. (Don't forget to replace the stopper and cap - I failed to do that once and had a huge puddle when I ran the unit the next time). After emptying the water out of the unit, I let the fan run for a couple of hours to dry out the unit and prevent any moldy smells (that's the advice Supentown gave me and it has worked). By-the-way, I find Sunpentown a good business with nice and helpful folks. I've ordered an extra part (window kit) and had excellent customer service. 
We can't get central A/C in this house, so this is the best alternative. I've moved this unit into other rooms, too, and I love the flexibility it affords. 
This product has been worth every penny to me and I would buy it again.