ID: B000KJQ1DG-RKZOVPQ9CXHJ7-A1H1EC86TUH7LZ
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G-Zoom-Nikkor
ReviewerID: A1H1EC86TUH7LZ
ReviewerName: C. Goochee
Date: July 16, 2007
Helpful: 21 of 21
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great first SLR, with a couple of lessons learned
Content:
Thanks to all of the earlier reviewers who guided me to this camera as my first SLR camera !!!  I received the camera with the standard 18-55 lense, and also purchased the 55-200 lense, less than a week in advance of one of those once-in-a-lifetime vacations -- 10 days in Peru.  
The camera and its controls are very intuitive.  The camera with the standard lense is very easy to handle.  I took about 800 photos in 10 days (with just one battery re-charge !!).  The quality of the photos is amazing.  The 18-55 lense was the lense of choice for 95% of my photos -- indoor shots, photos of family members, and vistas.  The 55-200 lense (which has a potential for up to about 3.6X zoom) was useful when I wanted to get closeups of people and animals without being physically close to them -- e.g., taking pictures of indigenous people at a respectful distance, or photographing a distant llama.)  On this vacation, I didn't ever feel that I needed more than the 3.6X zoon capability of the 55-200 lense.
The full Automatic (point-and-shoot) mode on the camera makes EXCELLENT decisions for photos that require the flash.  The Aperature-control mode results in amazing portrait photos at low aperature settings.
The problems I had with the camera were relatively minor.  In the full Automatic mode with the camera's default settings, the camera has a lot of trouble getting the correct light exposure for outside shots -- photos tend to be overexposed and lose bright highlights -- for example, clouds and other white highlights are saturated -- that is, are presented as pure white, with no potential for later correction via computer.  This was correctable by operating in the "P" mode, and correcting the exposure using an "EV" setting of -1/3 to -1.7.  
Another small problem:  On a bright sunny day, it is hard to see the photos on the rear-camera display -- e.g., to know whether the exposure is correct for the shot you've just taken.  But, the camera has an excellent "histogram" feature that permits you to quickly judge whether you have the correct EV setting, even if you can't make out the details of the picture on the display.
Another small problem:  In the full Automatic mode on a cloudy day (with the camera's default settings), the camera seemed to have trouble with the color brown.  Thus, brown adobe huts and the brown grown came out as grey.  This was fully correctable by setting the "lighting" compensation setting on the camera to "shade".  
Perhaps as I get more familiar with the camera, I will learn other ways to get around these problems, as the camera has many settings and and controls that I haven't explored yet.  Or, perhaps I will learn that I created these problems for myself !!  The main point is that it was very easy to figure out fixes to each problem I encountered, and obtain the best photos I every taken.
So, not to lose sight of the main message, this is a great first SLR camera for a person who has only used point-and-shoot cameras previously.  My two daughters were using new $250-$350 Sony and Cannon point-and-shoot cameras on the trip, and they also had outstanding indoor photos and outdoor family closeup photos.  However, their cameras were no match for the Nikon D40 in terms of the full range of photo opportunities, including vistas, portraits, and action photographs of people/animals, etc.
The Nikon D40 can do everything a point-and-shoot camera can do, but then provide the flexibility to get great photos in situations where the limitations of point-and-shoot become evident.