ID: B0007Y7976-RUKP2Y3FNGW38-AHRQV8JWY0JZI
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-White-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: AHRQV8JWY0JZI
ReviewerName: dougjnn "dougjnn"
Date: October 27, 2006
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Superb!  Exceeded all expectations.  Most limitations aren't.
Content:
Absolutely fabulous mp3 etc player. Exceeded my expectations.  Had for two weeks now and I couldn't be happier with this one.
I've been a skeptic and hold out on iPods forever. Previously had a Creative MuVo 4gb mini hd system.  It was the tiniest by far in it's day for it's size, and had features, in theory.  But here's the real world thing.  The software on that suc*ked.  Caused me to not use it much, after the initial honeymoon, or kinda forced honeymoon.
This beauty in contrast, in addition to being just about the perfect form factor, incredibly thin, pretty narrow, and the right amount of tall, and a very sleek black plastic, bright color screen, has wonderfully easy to use software.  I guess that's been true of iPod's generally for awhile but it sure is of this one, with improvements.
Now what about the 8gb "limitation" compared to current HD iPods of 30 or 80gb? The thing is the iTunes host PC synching software is so easy to use that it's real simple to simply move around what's in the thing.  Just set up lots of playlists by artist or album, or type of music, or whatever.  Same kind of idea with podcasts.  Really well done.  Really easy to vary each day, usually only in part.  Or every so often,etc.  This baby's plenty big enough if you go this way.  Not to hold all you own, but why do that?  That's what big hard drives on PC's or external firewire's for laptops (like my 300gb for just music) are for.  
Now what about Apple's locking out subscription services and tracks?  Simple.  Buy $50 Replay AV, or something like it, though that one's real good.  There are TONES of internet radio stations broadcasting in streams that software can capture, often at 128k and sometimes 196k shoutcast mp3, and it will even divide into songs AND TAG THEM WITH ARTIST AND TITLE.  
As well there's now a nifty $50 (ok way overpriced, but excellent) Apple fm radio, shirt top TINY control button for everything, accessory.  Recommended.  As is Belkin's $5 on Amazon silicon rubber protective sheath and (detachable) running armband combo.
Couldn't recommend more highly.  This is the way to go for portable music today!