ID: B00023NFCA-R1677ZLFDCOKYV-AHTGES9QI0TT1
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Minolta-7D-Digital-Anti-Shake-Technology
ReviewerID: AHTGES9QI0TT1
ReviewerName: GEGJR
Date: March 17, 2005
Helpful: 13 of 14
Rating: 5.0
Title: Preliminary Review update
Content:
I have just had my camera for a week so this review is very preliminary. First of all let me say me that I am a diehard dyed in the wool Minolta believer. So, this review won't be so much about what is right but more about things I found that perplexed me or need improvement. I am doing it that way because it has been my experience that most people that already have a top end camera are not looking to switch systems and that KM users reading reviews want to know where the weaknesses exist. I already own a Max9 and HtsiPlus so I was elated to see that the controls were left alone and are much the same as on the Max 9&7. The camera, as with the 9 & 7 is a very intuitive camera. Many people have complained about the weight but after using the 9 for so long the 7D feels like a feather. The big screen is really nice especially for me since I am over 50 and suffer the over 40 eye disease :-). The big screen makes scrolling through options an almost unannoying experience and is certainly easy to find what you want easily. Some of the symbols used in the menu are not very intuitive to me and I find myself hunting for which one to use for what I want to change. But I do appreciate how easy it is to read the screen. At first glance at the viewfinder it appears the camera has eyestart but it does not. Apparently the sensors are there to detect when to turn the screen off if you have it in always on mode. I never really used eystart anyway. The onboard flash seems to be too harsh for subjects within 7 to 10 feet range which is typically the range that a flash works best. I tried using the onboard flash in ADI (without and ADI lens, more on this later), pre-flash ttl, and manual mode. It didn't matter what mode I used, if I didn't dial in flash compensation the flash would be too harsh and if I dialed in compensation there wouldn't be enough flash. I guess the ttl doesn't work. Now for The ADI issue. I don't understand why there is an ADI option in the flash menu? Shouldn't ADI just work intuitively if the lens is ADI? Why do I have to turn it on or off? In fact, I would have loved to see a flash button put on the camera so I don't have to go to the menu to put the flash in manual or pre-flash ttl mode. Instead I'd just push the button then use the control wheel to set the flash mode.
Finally, if you purchase the VC-7D grip be warned that the holding strap (HS-1) does not come with the grip like it does with VC-9 grip. You have purchase it as a seperate item at about $21. Speaking of the grip, why doesn't the VC-7D hold two different kinds of batteries at the same time like the VC-9?
After I take some pictures I'll be back to tell you what I think.
10/22/06 Ok I am back. I have thoroughly enjoyed using this camera. Except for a trip I took to Sanibel Island Florida Ding Darling Refuge in April 06 I have used the Maxxum 7D exclusively. I have found that flash problem I spoke of earlier is caused by the hyperfocal distance of the lens. If you are shooting within 10 feet and not using an ADI capable lens you must have the flash set to TTL. Also, using the 5600hs(D) external flash with a lens 40mm or less you must dial down the flash to -1 or even -2. Battery life is excellent. I have filled up 3 1GB cards without having to change batteries. The anti-shake mechanism works but works much better with lenses of 200mm or better. I still haven't learned the menu system well enough to go straight to the function I wish change without having to think about it quite a bit. There is a neat custom function which allows you to select the center contoller button as the AF instead of using the shutter release button. this allows you to prefocus leaving the shutter release for setting exposure so that you can reframe and shoot without waiting for the lens to refocus.