ID: B000TTSXNI-RMG3GMTLTLU6O-A2FRFAQCWZJT3Q
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Lasko-751320-Ceramic-Heater-Control
ReviewerID: A2FRFAQCWZJT3Q
ReviewerName: B. Davis "The Happy Hermit"
Date: November 16, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Perfect Bedroom Heater
Content:
If it's not bitterly cold I leave it off at night because I sleep better if the room is cool but I keep the remote control by my bed so that in the morning I can turn the heater on and get the room toasty before I leave those warm covers.  Once up I usually set the temperature of the heater to 70 then when I return after a while for my shower and to get ready for the day I can do so in a warm bedroom/bathroom.  When we have truly cold nights I set the heater at its lowest temperature of 60, or maybe 65 degrees so that it can click on and off and keep the room comfortable all night.  And by the way, the temperature setting is accurate - I have the ExactSet Projection Clock BLUE by my bed and have checked it several times to see if the room temperature matches the heater setting and it always does!  Amazing!  The heater is not silent but not noisy either.  The remote is of a very handy shape and super easy to figure out with explanatory graphics on each button. It can control any and all functions of the heater and in fact it's better in the way that when changing temperature settings the remote lets you go up or down whereas using the temp button on the heater you can only go up so you have to press through an entire cycle if you're wanting to lower the temperature.  You get an easy to hear beep whenever you use the remote so you know if the heater received its orders.  I don't use the oscillate feature, it doesn't seem to me that having it turn would help in any way.  I appreciate the indention on the back at the top so when you want to relocate the heater your fingers have a better hold on it and being tallish you don't even have to bend down, just grasp it at the top and go.  My cord does not heat up, it gets just a little warm even after running non-stop for over an hour.  I'm very happy with this heater.