ID: B000A33B1C-R10FCU4HMVVIQB-A2O41VUL07OG7G
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Delonghi-TRD0715T-Safe-Oil-Filled-Radiator
ReviewerID: A2O41VUL07OG7G
ReviewerName: Raymond Melikian
Date: January 2, 2010
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Far exceeded my expectations
Content:
I bought 3 of these after much research for my 125 year old, poorly insulated farmhouse in NC.
I've waited to write this review until the temperature came down into the teens and for the past few weeks it's been cold enough to write the review.
My house is a 2 story  with 1300 sq ft. downstairs and 600 up with one bedroom downstairs and the other 2 up. I don't ever use the upstairs.
I started off with 2 of these (went to 3) for the downstairs. When the temp is in the teens it will keep the downstairs at 65-66 degrees with no problem. Even though I don't use the upstairs, there's enough heat that rises up the staircase to keep it at 58 degrees with no heaters.
The master bedroom is somewhat separated from the main house so it has it's own oil filled heater. It keeps nice and toasty at around 70 degrees with the door closed. I used to have an electric fireplace heater in the bedroom but this is much much better (plus you don't "dry out" like you do with electric fan heat).
I could not be happier with the performance and cost savings. I'm normally on propane for heat and before I bought these I would watch the level of the propane tank sink every day ($$$.)
My electric bill has gone up around $40 dollars per month with the THREE of them going 24-7. If I had been running propane or oil heat it would have cost me around $250 per month, plus I would have had to heat the whole upstairs which I don't use..
There's a little bit of a smell for the first few hours after you plug them in, but to me it was not that strong and not a big deal.
The way I look at it, these have already paid for themselves in the first month of operation. 
For those with older houses or houses with bad insulation I am going to tell you how to spend $5.00 dollars and GREATLY improve the insulation in your home...Buy plastic safety plugs for all of your outlets. They run about $2 dollars for 10 of them. You just "plug" them in any outlet you're not using to stop the draft from coming in the unused holes. I COULD NOT believe the difference it made in heating my house. I mean it was just a HUGE HUGE difference!
If you were like me and spent countless hours doing research for the best electric heater out there then search no more. This is truly a great product and built to last.