ID: B000VDQ38E-R3O89ZUBM7TEVA-AODGZB62E5FY0
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: AODGZB62E5FY0
ReviewerName: S. Anderson "Cat Lover"
Date: July 7, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best Thing Since Sliced Bread
Content:
We have several wonderful cats that we adopted/saved from the elements, and vacuuming has ALWAYS been a problem. We have tried so many different vacuums; so many different brands. When our last one pooped out on us, I went looking to Amazon, and low and behold, I found the Bissell Pet Hair Eraser. I thought, ya, sure, another one that brags about their 'great' product. I read all the reviews, and finally decided to yet again, try another vacuum cleaner. Well I have to say, this has been one of the best decisions I have ever made. The suction on this thing is so powerful, it picks up all the hair and other dirt with no problem at all. It is so easy to use. And this is one that DOES vacuum the dirt right up to the wall. One review said that the dirt falls out all over the place when the bottom canister is pulled out to empty. True, but I have found that if you tap on the upper canister first to loosen and drop the dust/dirt into the bottom one, and carefully slide out the bottom canister, I have no problem with the dirt falling out anywhere. He also said you have to empty the canister really often. True, again. But I feel it's worth it if the vacuum is doing the work it's meant to do. The one thing I did have a problem with was that the rollers continute to rotate when using any of the attachments. The booklet said that when using the attachments, the rollers will raise up away from the floor so it won't ruin the rugs. True, but because of the force of the vacuum's power while using the attachments, it heats up more and the belt had a spot that "burnt", making it slippery, and now falls off the pin every time I try to use the vacuum. This happened when I was vacuuming hair off our 6 foot cat tower, which took quite a long time and had to stand in one spot for a length of time. So I just ordered more belts. Unfortunately, I cannot use my vacuum cleaner until the new belts arrive. This IS a problem that I will present directly to Bissell to find out if it's a manufacturers default, or if I did something wrong. Therefore, I will not complain of this problem. I'll just make sure I have enough extra belts on hand. (Minor detail) All the parts on the vacuum cleaner snap on and off (no screws), making it very easy to replace parts. Heavenly! I have to say that I love this vacuum cleaner, and wish I had found this sooner. It really does the work; it really IS a "Pet Hair Eraser". I recommend this vacuum cleaner to ANYONE who has pets: cats, dogs, birds, whatever.