ID: B0007QKMSC-R30EBVWZ2L29QL-A1CTVZ3W8XZWZ9
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-Camera
ReviewerID: A1CTVZ3W8XZWZ9
ReviewerName: Kenneth R. Shapiro
Date: January 9, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Much different, but not necessarily better, than a good point and shoot
Content:
Pros:  Very sharp contrast & detail even in low light; built in flash has good range; smaller & lighter than other DSLRs including the original rebel; zero shutter lag or shot to shot delay; uses compact flash cards which are inexpensive and easy to handle; can be upgraded to handle AA batteries; compatible with all EOS film camera EF lenses; lots of menu choices including customizing scenes; great Black/white mode.
Cons: Kit lens results in underexposed pictures when using flash and automatic settings(which can be compensated for by using manual settings); automatic white balance not as good as many point & shoot cameras; can not effectively focus on two objects that are different depths even in aperture priorty or A-DEP modes (as many point and shoots can); much larger and heavier than almost all point and shoot cameras; good lenses are expensive; no image stabilization without special (expensive) lenses.
Other thoughts: I think many people buy a DSLR because they think the image quality is much better than a point and shoot.  This is not necessarily true especially when using a cheaper lens (ie the kit lens) compared to a great point and shoot cameras such as the canon SD700, fuji f31fd, olympus C-7000 or panasonic DMC-FZ5.  I found a better lens than the bundled 18-55mm kit lens that sells very cheaply (especially used), the canon ef 28-80mm 1:3.5-5.6 which results in more realistic color and brightness especially in automatic mode.  A good point and shoot is much more practical for carrying around and really does as good a job for image quality under most situations and better in some others (such as photographing objects at different distances simultaneously and trying to keep all in focus).  The real advantages of this camera over a point and shoot are that almost every conceivable setiing can be changed manually; the availablility of so many lenses (though the really good ones are very expensive); the feel of a professional camera and much better flash range.  I believe that most people that buy this camera will also own (and use) a small point and shoot camera.  If you have no desire to use manual settings, consider this purchase carefully.  You may be better of with a good point and shoot (The DMC-FZ5 and SD700 are my favorites)