ID: B000CD34US-R10WF1G5JHS3I4-A35AM6FWQOS0DR
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: American-Harvest-Pellet-Stove-Exhaust
ReviewerID: A35AM6FWQOS0DR
ReviewerName: James
Date: April 1, 2006
Helpful: 21 of 21
Rating: 5.0
Title: Works great when you use it properly
Content:
I have had my stove for a year now.  It cost about $300 to heat my 1600 sq ft basement heated.  The additional benifit is that because the heat rises, my floors are warm on the first floor, and the air in the family room which is also the room with the stairs to the basement is warmer.
There are a couple issues that you must take into consideration:
  Dry corn is a must.  I buy corn from a local farmer with a moisture content of about 14 - 14.5%.  This is a little higher than recommended by the manufacturer, so I add 2 lbs. of wood pellets per bushel of corn.  I also add about 1/2 lb. of oyster shell (chicken scratch) per bushel to virtually eliminate klinkers.
  The stove needs to be clean.  I shut the stove down once a week for cleaning.  Empty the ash bin, vacuum the firebox area, the heat transfer tubes, and the chimney clean-out.
  Noise is about equal to a normal box window fan in good condition.  The noise I hear is tha actual air blowing more than anything else.  The firebox does lift up and drop back down on occasion, but this happens on average about once every hour or so, less immediately after a cleaning, more after 5 or 6 days of running.
  Power.  You must have electricity to run.  If the power goes out, so does the stove.  This will not keep you warm during power outages.  We have lost power while the stove was running, but all that happened was the stove went out.  No fumes seemed to back up into the house, but I had closed the air intake vent immediately.  I would imagine that if you didn't close it, it would smell a bit until the fire died out.
  It is much more work than just turning up the thermostat, but I have saved more than half the cost of the stove in propane compared to last winter.  I am thinking about purchasing another one for the upper level.