ID: B000VR3P9K-R1P8JNZVCBFHR7-A29KC8AHD69XLE
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB604LL-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: A29KC8AHD69XLE
ReviewerName: Jacek R. Ambroziak
Date: January 8, 2009
Helpful: 13 of 13
Rating: 3.0
Title: Beautiful computer, some mixed feelings
Content:
This is my first Apple computer ever. I am a software developer who mostly used Unix (Solaris) and Linux, rarely venturing into Windows land mostly for Nikon Scan and Photoshop. For a long time I believed Macs were for graphics/video designers, rather than hard core developers. The fact that I've seen lots of MacBooks at conferences such as Web 2.0 in SF, did not convince me enough: I attributed the widespread use of them to a fad, a certain "style" as in clothing. For me a computer is a "knowledge worker's tool" not a fashion statement. Another reason to stay away from Apple products has been high margin pricing. CPUs, GPUs, memory, disks, are quickly getting cheaper, and yet Apple sells these commodities like luxury goods. One can configure a beautiful Lenovo laptop with more horsepower for much cheaper (I've done it recently for a friend).
So why do it?
Here are MY reasons. 1) I needed MAC OS X to port some of my applications to the Mac, maybe go into iPhone development too. 2) I needed *some* laptop (for mobility) to replace my historic trusty Dell Inspiron 8000. Most of my work happens on a custom built desktop. 3) I am not much of a Windows fan and I am a bit tired of Linuxes; I wanted inspiration from something I haven't used before: to learn and expand knowledge/experience horizons.
So that's where I am coming from... 
After 3 weeks of usage I can say the following (you will notice the mixed feelings from the title of this review)
This is a computer of *stunning* beauty! It is a work of art: the screen, the keyboard, the body; it belongs on a permanent exibition at the MoMA. As such it is a joy to use and have around, it brightens my daily experience. And yet... why such a small screen resolution (1440x900) for a 15 inch screen?! Even my historic Dell from 2001 sported 1600x1200, great for working with text and hi-res photos. For this kind of money we should be getting higher resolution. I am not talking about numbers for numbers' sake: the font characters (even as I write this) are far from print quality, issues with anti-aliasing software may have something to do with this. Within the first couple of hours I practically decided to return the laptop because of how text looks 70% of the time. It is difficult to understand why Apple is saving on pixels here and impairs an otherwise great product. Is it because higher resolutions are reserved for even pricier models? Apart from the not-so-great-a-resolution (you may google around for other people's opinions on that), pricing is somewhat annoying too (and also discussed in many places on the Web). To connect an external monitor you need a $30 or $100 additional cable. To upgrade to a much more reasonable 4GB of RAM you'll need $100+ (or $300 if you want this commodity to have Apple sign on it :-) ) 
But... I decided to keep the laptop. It is too beautiful, and I find MAC OS "Leopard" intriguing and a good experience. Then there are other pluses: the keyboard (back-lit w/ smooth key action), great network connectivity, convenient weight and dimensions, glossy screen (I don't have issues with reflections other reviewers mention). From the developer's perspective, I learn some good things and some not so good: apparently I can't just download my Java from Sun (say 32-bit Java 6); I have to live with what Apple endorses :-(
Amazon/UPS delivery was fantastic, packaging is beautiful too: they both made for a very pleasant and exciting experience.
Summary: I am not returning the laptop, I enjoy its beauty and functionality, but if I didn't need MAC OS for my planned work, I would have stayed in the higher value priced PC-land (eg. Lenovo + Ubuntu) where you can customize parameters better and avoid hefty margins.
A FEW DAYS LATER: With MiniDisplayPort to DVI adapter (another $30) I connected the laptop to my 1600x1200 Sony LCD monitor. The text characters can still look pretty bad, eg. equals sign = with grey area between the horizontal segments. The bad news is that the higher resolution did not heal the issue: the good news: perhaps this is a software issue to be solved with a system update -- I hope.