ID: B0007X7W6K-RDS8SP859PHG5-A2E9NLZR4GDU52
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: NIKON-D2X-Megapixel-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A2E9NLZR4GDU52
ReviewerName: Walter "techie"
Date: August 20, 2005
Helpful: 25 of 26
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent buy ... excellent camera
Content:
I've been using the Nikon N70 for 7 years and although I've wanted to get into the digital world - I didn't want to spend a lot of money to get a digital SLR.  The thing is, I got so used to the features with my film SLR that when I bought my first 'point and shoot' digital camera (last year) the performance was so disappointing that I promptly returned it one week after purchasing it.
Since I've 'grown' up in the Nikon world - I used my dad's Nikon before I got the N70 - I started to research which digital Nikon SLR I wanted to buy.  I spent months researching - almost bought the D2H during the firestorm sale earlier this year but finally settled on the D2X.
After going through months of whether I should buy a D70(s) or D2X I finally read a post in which the author said he made the purchase because he wanted a digital camera that will last him for the next ten years.  I don't know if my D2X will last me 10 years - but one thing that I do know is that I'm extremely fussy and I demand perfection from my camera - of course assuming that I take the perfect picture too :).
I didn't want to be worried about the resolution and the speed, i.e. the D70.  The D2H(s) was the next logical step for me but with the lower resolution and the high cost it just didn't make sense.  The speed was a critical thing for me and although I'm not a sports journalist I wanted my camera to be very fast.
My advice to anyone looking to buy a digital SLR - if you don't have the money or don't want to take out a loan - buy the D70.  If you like to play with the latest in technology or want the ability to take the best pictures and have complete control over your picture taking - buy the D2X.
Beware though - it takes a lot of learning and a lot of practice to master this beast.  I've had it for a couple months and every time I use the camera I'm always learning something more about it, but I love my camera and I love what it does for me.