ID: B00005MF9C-R3HBNCNTTQAY4X-A1XZF9Y0O61CMH
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-DCM18S-Personal-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1XZF9Y0O61CMH
ReviewerName: Mwaa "sister321"
Date: August 18, 2005
Helpful: 27 of 27
Rating: 5.0
Title: You Gotta Have IT!!!!!
Content:
For 17 dollars, come on!!! That's like one plain shirt in Old Navy.
Here let me help you out if this coffee maker and you are compatible:
1. Do you drink alot of coffee? If yes then dont get this. Get the six-cup coffee maker.  This is for people who drinks 1-2-3 cups a  DAY. If you drink more than that it might frustrate you to constantly fill the compartment every now and then. But if you're patient enough to wait for less than a minute, then get it.
2. No need for those filters. Saves the environment and money.
3. Do you want a quickie clean-up? If yes, the get this. Just rinse with water and you're fine. 
Hey guys, I read tons of reviews before buying this. I liked it because its light, portable, cleans easily, cheap and environmentally friendly (not to mention  economically).
There are some negative  in Amazon because they follwed the guidelines in the paper. Here's my precaustions to have a perfect cup:
1. Make sure you dont fill it all with water. Try making 3/4 cups, just to be in the safe side. 
2. Use Starbucks ground coffee---it'll make you feel glad you're saving $4.
3. You can use another mug or coffee cup to suit your taste. I got a smiley face mug from the 99c store. Some reviews mentioned that the travel mug smells like rubber when they bought it. duh! that's because its new. All you have to do is wash it with dishwashing liquid. If that's too difficult, then dont buy the coffee maker. 
All in all, Im satisfied with my purchase. This is my first coffee maker (I personally bought) and it sure is very cute and useful.  Its super cheap--but the most important aspect of it---IT WORKS. 
Dont expect like those heavy-weight and dramatic coffee makers. This belongs to a whole new genre. Definitely not your poshy restaurant/hotel coffee maker. Its just a simple plastic toy-like coffee maker that works.  
I think I better go. Im at work and making this review?! What's wrong with me---I just like my Brew N Go