ID: B000GTR2F6-R3VLU7PLTJ8ACH-A26EFXZHWJTDY3
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Platinum-Single-Cup-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: A26EFXZHWJTDY3
ReviewerName: SlingingMercury
Date: November 9, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Barista in a box
Content:
We have owned our Keurig B70 for 21 months.  It has performed like a champ.  I turned my folks onto it, and theirs has worked perfectly, as well.  We brew about 6-10 cups of coffee every day over the course of the day and my wife and I drink coffee at different times, so a drip coffee maker just didn't work for us.  We use large mugs and get one 12oz and one 4oz brew from each k-cup, so 16oz at a time.  The coffee is always piping hot, even when mixed with cold half/half or heavy cream, and depending on which k-cup brand/type the coffee can be mild to very strong even with 16oz from a single k-cup.  Because we love it, we put up with the fact that ours is somewhat louder than usual and tends to vibrate more than usual.  We actually have placed it on a cut to size vibration absorbing mat, since we have granite counter tops, which accentuate the vibration.  Adding the mat really helped settle it down.  For the first 14 months we had a lot of scale buildup and I found that, simply running white vinegar through the machine(30-60oz of vinegar/water at a time) would clean it out, I only had to do it twice and the scale never affected performance.  Based on that, I would say it is very low maintenance even with bad water.  I can't imagine going back to filters, grounds, and all the cleaning of a traditional coffee maker again.  Some may complain that they don't like the coffee(there are some k-cups I find rather displeasing myself). I have had better cups of coffee from an espresso machine(Americano) with a skilled Barista, however, I think the coffee tastes very good and I am a little particular.  There is quite a large selection available and if you shop during sales you can get the k-cups for as little as .20-.40 each or from Keurig direct for as little as .47 per k-cup at regular pricing with membership(free shipping factored in).  The speed and convenience has saved us many stops at Starbucks or their ilk and no doubt our keurig has paid for itself several times over.