ID: B000O161W6-RY045P9W82QDF-A2BUQ240COLAOP
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-18-135mm-3-5-5-6G-Zoom-Nikkor
ReviewerID: A2BUQ240COLAOP
ReviewerName: Dave from Tacoma
Date: May 27, 2007
Helpful: 52 of 60
Rating: 4.0
Title: Nikon D40X - not a pro camera, but still very good
Content:
I did a dumb thing last Tuesday - while at the airport, I had my fully outfitted Canon D20 rig - battery grip pack, 4 batteries, several lenses, remote trigger, external flash, 3 GB CF mini hard drive card and a case full of other stuff.  While on the shuttle train to my gate it was on my shoulder on the seat.  When the train stopped, I jumped off with my laptop, but the camera bag had slipped off onto the seat - I didn't notice the weight change on my shoulder.  As the door was closing, I saw my camera drive off in an empty train to pick up more travellers.  $3000+ in camera gear soon to be in the hands of a new owner :-(  I called Lost and Found, but let's face it - it's gone for good.  Oh well - I make good money, and it's just 'stuff' - what else can you do, ya know?  I can only say I'm glad I didn't have my GPS, point-and-shoot, 700p  PDA cell phone and car keys in the same case like I normally do when I travel (I fly a lot).  This one day, all the other stuff was in my laptop case.
Soooo.... today I bought the Nikon at Costco in a 2 lens kit for about $970.  I fully knew it wasn't the pro grade that my Canon was.  But I just wanted to 'get back in it' as I take a LOT of photos for work and pleasure.
The D40x takes GREAT photos - but I quickly found a few limitations that I have not seen posted.  There is no direct entry for color temperature.  Since I shoot semi professionally, and use a color temperature meter on a regular basis, I feel this is important.  With the Nikon, you can only set the 'lighting type' - outdoors, tungsten, flourescent, etc.  No direct entry of color temp in Kelvins.  Also, there is no instant access to ISO - another important feature the D40x lacks.  There is no external sync PC connection for pro flash gear (I use Novatron flash packs in manual mode).  You have to buy a hot shoe adapter to get this - no biggie, but it's more money and not included.
But I will say it's WAY faster than the Canon D20 was - very quick to start, and no lag between shots.  The ergonomics are better in some ways - it's WAY lighter, but a little small.  There's no LCD on top, and only one encoder wheel (which limits how many changes you can make quickly).  The built-in editing and such are fine if you want that stuff in the camera.  I don't - I use Photoshop and do all that stuff on the computer.  Also, I normally shoot RAW + Large JPEG - the D40X only allows RAW + 'basic' JPEG - you cannot do 1:4 large JPEGs and RAW at the same time - I consider this a limitation, as it means I must do the conversion in the computer instead of just dumping both formats onto the editing disk.  For point and shoot, it isn't an issue.
I think it's a great semi-pro camera - if you are looking for a GOOD 'point and shoot' this might be the ticket.  If you are looking for a GOOD  DSLR, I'd go for the Nikon D80 instead.  I chose the D40X on the thought that next year, the D80 class will be 20 Megapixels, and I'll just hang on until then to move back into a pro-class DSLR.  So my issues really relate to the fact I didn't want to jump right back in with another $3000 to get to where I was on Tuesday.  I did NOT expect the D40x to be pro grade - it's a VERY good camera for what it is.
Oh, and if you happen to have 'found' a Canon D20 camera and bag on a train to the south terminal of the Seattle airport on May 22 at 7:30 AM, I'll happily give you a VERY generous reward for returning it to me :-)