ID: B00008NRTZ-R1GUXZHF9CCQ4I-A333636QFPT073
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-6900-DigiPro-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A333636QFPT073
ReviewerName: Wanderer
Date: October 5, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 1.0
Title: Horrible Vacuum, Waste of Money!
Content:
My wife and I purchased this vacuum probably four years ago. At first we thought it was great, worked good and was easy to use. Over time, however, I've become less and less enamored with it. Let me give some examples. 
First, it does clog very easily because of the design. Secondly, I've found that there are issues with keeping a good connection between the hose and the canister section. As you move around with it, it tends to try and yank itself out, resulting in constant and annoying 'brown outs' where you lose power to the sweeper (and the light). 
Another thing I don't like is the suction. It starts off pretty good, but it drops off pretty quick and towards the end, when the bag is filling up, it's pretty much useless. And no, the HEPA filter does not work very well at all on this unit, it blows the majority right back out. I don't personally use this feature, or care about it I guess I should say, so it didn't matter to me. If it matters to you, avoid this unit like the plague.
Finally, probably the worst thing, is that the hose is constantly kinking itself, becoming twisted (to where it will keep trying to kink until you untwist it) and so on. The last straw for me was when the hose completely separated from the handle without warning. One minute I'm vacuuming, the next I hear a suction noise and notice that I'm holding onto a handle where the hose is dangling out the end by a thread (the piece that has the wiring in it). 
I got a couple years of service from this unit, and it does vacuum, but it's got too many imperfections to it. I would never buy this vacuum again and I'd strongly advise anyone here to carefully read all these negative reviews, look at all the consistent problems (especially the hose!) and steer far clear of this thing.