ID: B00005IBX9-RGSSOG70GO01T-AGX09MU5G9B6I
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1200-Central-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: AGX09MU5G9B6I
ReviewerName: Sleepydog
Date: January 27, 2004
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: And the Verdict Is. . .
Content:
After much research, I decided to go with this Cuisinart coffee maker and have not been disappointed.  Here are the basics:1) Great looks2) Makes hot coffee, not blazing hot coffee3) Pot pours better than any pot I've ever used4) Water gauge is hard to read inside, but not on the pot5) A bit pricey, but has been worth it for meNow, if you want particulars, keep reading. . .First, as noted, the look is decidely cool, and given I'd just spent loads of money to remodel my kitchen, to include brushed stainless steel appliances, the Brew Central made sense.   True, the first cup of coffee immediately after brewing isn't as hot as it can be even with the &quot;1-4 cup&quot; button depressed.  Oh, it comes out hot enough for the first half of a cup, but by the second half has cooled off a bit.  But, the warmer plate--even on medium where I set it--keeps the remaining coffee plenty hot unless you insist on burning your coffee.  The pot is the easiest pouring one I've ever handled in my 30+ years of drinking coffee.  It pours where you aim it, and it doesn't come streaming out the top or the sides unlike the one reviewer I've read who said it did.  Perhaps he had a defective pot.  That said, the opening to the water reservoir is smallish yet even when I don't have my contacts in and stumble downstairs early in the morning to take care of a three-year old I still manage to get it right every time.  It's not that tiny, especially given how well the pot pours.  Yes, the markings inside are hard to see, but not the ones on the pot!  I fill the pot according to how much coffee I want.  Why would you fill the reservoir to see how much coffee you want?  Some might argue, correctly, that the pot markings vary from those inside a coffee maker due to the amount of absorption your grounds give you.  So what?  Adjusting your coffee bean amount to your water amount is a typical hit-and-miss process with any new coffee maker.  It took me about four pots of coffee before I learned what worked for me with the Brew Central, and since then I've been extremely happy, cost and all.