ID: B00008J4C7-R16A0Y1ZE74Z6Y-A2GIP1PN1H2YN0
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Shark-Power-Pet-Lightweight-Canister
ReviewerID: A2GIP1PN1H2YN0
ReviewerName: Colleen Sleszynski "Colleen"
Date: February 22, 2006
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Vacuuming is super-duper fun
Content:
I grew up using a Rainbow vacuum, and nothing else has ever compared. We've had an Orek for 8 years - and I HATE IT! After spending a small fortune on it, I was forced to keep using it. I researched until I got blue in the face, and am so happy with my purchase. I decided to buy it a Target instead of online, just in case I didn't like it, then I could return it easily enough. DON'T CONFUSE THIS ROADSTER (EP722) WITH THE OTHER ROADSTER SHARK, that uses bags and has much less suction.
We have a 3,000 sq ft house with hardwood and carpet. We have two big dogs that shed enough to knit a sweater everyday. We also have two, two year olds that leave cheerios everywhere.
Here is what I was looking for in a vacuum... Good at picking up dog hair without getting clogged, good suction to get deep in the carpets, portable enough for stairs, a flat head with good swivel action so it fits around the toilet and under the fridge and heavy furniture, and able to pick up large dog food. The Roadster does it all!
The first time I plugged this thing in, I got so excited. Vacuuming was a breeze and I was able to do the whole house in a fraction of the time it usually took me. I didn't need to pull out the dustbuster and the shop vac to clean. This thing even picked up the lost pine needles from the Christmas tree. There is no need to bend over and pick up all those little pieces of paper and bag ties that drop on the floor... nope, it sucks them all right up - no problem. the swivel head easily manuvers around the toilet, under the fridge, and under our very heavy furniture. We don't have to move anything. My two year old daughter loves to vacuum, and it's light enough for her to use too. It reaches into the crevices of the couch and sucks EVERYTHING up. I'm also addicted to the dusting brush. It stores small and doesn't take up much room on the floor of my linen closet. I know it cleans deep in the carpets because when we shampoo it, the water isn't nearly as filthy as it used to be with the Oreck. It also makes the carpet stand up again after years of laying down.
Now for the cons... the cord is way too short - 15 ft doesn't even reach accross the entire room. I vacuum with an extension cord so I don't have to keep stopping. The dust cup is way too small. I have to empty it atleast 3 times every time I vacuum (but remember the dog hair?)It's very messy to empty, so I dump it in the garage can. The filter is also time consuming to clean. There is a brush that fits onto the back of it, that allows you to loosen the dirt - it helps a lot. If you don't clean the filter after every use, you loose precious suction. When they say viggerously tap the filter until no more dust comes out - they mean it! I end up washing it after every use. Make sure you don't put it back on while it's wet, or it won't dry properly. I ordered a second filter (online) so I could always have a clean, dry one. Also make sure you change all three filters occasionally.
This vacuum is not for everyone, it requires a bit of maintenance, but is a BIG bang for the buck. I wanted a Dyson, but didn't want to lay out $600. Consumer reports ranked this second in suction.