ID: B000CC91E2-R2WHWE0CJ4NPQ9-A11ED8O95W2103
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Black-Decker-CCV900-Dustbuster-CycloPro
ReviewerID: A11ED8O95W2103
ReviewerName: lighten_up_already2 "lighten_up_already2"
Date: March 27, 2007
Helpful: 12 of 12
Rating: 4.0
Title: Trade up from your dustbuster!  Cordless is overrated!
Content:
I finally got sick of using a dustbuster that I paid about $40.00 for only to have it fail to hold a charge after about a year.  A dusbuster with a specialized, hard to find battery that costs almost as much as the dustbuster!  So, I decided to buy this new corded hand vac because I figured that I wouldn't mind plugging in a vacuum and having it actually work!  
This vacuum really sucks, but in a good way!  It works at least as well as the top-of-the-line 14 volt dustbuster it replaced.  It's a bit larger and heavier, but it's lighter than I thought it would be from looking at the pictures.  It really is no more difficult than a dustbuster to use.  I just used it to suck the pine needles off my carpeted stairs and to suck up the paper shreds on my carpet that I always spill when I empty the bin on my shredder.  So, I'm happy with the performance.
Emptying the dirt container is still potentially messy, but as easy as with my dustbuster and way easier than with my little shop vac. 
Oh yeah, before I forget, the power cord is nice and long. 
However, this product isn't perfect.  Here's some other stuff you might want to know.
First, the brush tool broke after a couple minutes.  The metal assembly that holds the brush came out of the plastic brush tool assembly.  I pushed it back in and it stays in there, but I was rather surprised that something would break right out of the box.
Second, the unit heats up quickly while you're vacuuming.  How hot can it get?  I don't know and I'm not sure I care to find out.
Third, it can double as a hair dryer.  The unit blows very warm air out the back on to your wrist, so if you put your head down a bit while you are vacuuming, your damp head will likely be dry very quickly. 
Fourth, there is no "Cord wrap system".  There really is only one logical way to wrap the cord around the vacuum.  Most people wouldn't need directions to figure it out.  The lack of a place for the cord is a limitation, not something to advertise.
That brings me to some suggested improvements.
How about a bracket so I can put it on the wall?  My old dustbuster had a bracket that doubled as a recharger, and my little shop vac has a wall bracket so the user wouldn't have to leave it on the floor where it gets lost or tripped over.  So, why can't I put this thing on the wall?   Wow, maybe the Black & Decker brainiacs could even provide a wall mounting bracket and a little double hook thingy to wrap the cord!  I could then actually mount the little vacuum near an outlet where I use it most and it would be always ready to go, at least in that area.  Then I might by several and position them around the house.
But nooooo.  You just wrap the cord around the vacuum and lay it somewhere.  Real convenience there.
Finally, give the little vac a cute name.  It kind of looks like an anteater or an aardvark.  Or, the Amazing New Batteryless Dustbuster. 
Anyway, vacuums continue to evolve, and this is a step in the right direction.