ID: B000NDMADO-R11HGYIPN28AZ7-A1ZXBPG2Y147CI
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dyson-DC21-Stowaway-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A1ZXBPG2Y147CI
ReviewerName: D. Smith
Date: April 17, 2007
Helpful: 39 of 39
Rating: 5.0
Title: A very powerful vacuum cleaner  - but it's expensive
Content:
I recently purchased the Dyson DC21 canister vacuum cleaner, and at first I was a little apprehensive of purchasing it (mainly due to the very high price of the item of $499), but after using the vacuum my apprehensions are now alleviated.  This vacuum can suck the dirt and dust out of a carpet as if it was powered by the gravitational force of a black hole, yet it doesn't require significant force by the user to utilize the vacuum.  I couldn't believe how much dirt and dust this vacuum removed from a "recently cleaned" carpet in a new house we moved into, it was as if the carpet was never really cleaned before.  
Also, the product lives up to it claim of cleaning the air while you vacuum, as I'd always have allergic reactions after using my old Dirt Devil upright vacuum.  Also, I would have thought the vacuum for as powerful as it advertised it was going to be, it was going to be as loud as a jet engine; however, it was much less noisy than my old Dirt Devil upright (which you could hear clearly outside of the house whenever it was used).  Overall, the Dyson DC21 is a very good vacuum cleaner but it's not inexpensive; however, just like the old saying goes, you'll get exactly what you pay for.
*** update 6/29/07
After using this vacuum now for a couple of months here's what I like, and dislike about it.
Pros: 
1. Very powerful vacuum (I'm sure that there may be other vacuum's more powerful, but I haven't seen them yet - but the selling point is suction of dirt, not raw power of the motor).
2. The dust canister is very easy to empty and clean
3. The HEPA filter is very easy to clean, and the vacuum filters out all of its discharged air.
4. Long warranty - Five years.
5. Not as loud as some vacuums that I've used in the past.
Cons:
1. The price - prohibitively expensive for most people's budget.  This is definitely a pricing decision you'd want to consult with your spouse before you run out and buy it.
2. Tendency to pull carpet fibers due to its suction power.  Doesn't happen a lot, but enough to make you wonder about the quality of the carpet your vacuuming.
3. Owner's manual is like reading an assembly manual for a desk from IKEA - plenty of pictures, but very few words.
4. A little bulky for most closets where you might store the vacuum.
5. The power cord isn't very long.  Good for small rooms, but a real            hassle if you plan to clean the entire house.  Invest in an extension cable.
6. The flex hose can get into a kink somewhat easily if vacuuming around tight corners and kill any suction needed to do the job.
I'm sure that there's more nit-picks I could mention, but this is more than enough.