ID: B00008UI0R-R10J5E3NUEOMBO-A2PHEKMJOZZNW1
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A2PHEKMJOZZNW1
ReviewerName: Karsten Weide
Date: November 12, 2006
Helpful: 19 of 20
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great vacuum, minor glitches
Content:
This is one great vacuum with a lot of power, and I would certainly recommend it to anyone who wants a bagless vacuum that does not cost a fortune (like the Dyson ones).
Some feedback for the engineers at Hoover:
1. The hose is attached statically to the canister, i. e., if one rotates the the pipe/brush piece vertically while vacuuming, the hose will crunch up and not righten itself. This can become so bad the only way to fix this is to detach the hose to straighten it out manually. I have seen some German vacuums where the hose was attached to the canister so that it is able to actually rotate. You rotate the handle, the hose rotates, too.
2. This vacuum is constructed to use the power-brush as the standard cleaning implement. It is very heavy and bulky, which makes it quite a schlepping job to move it, and it certainly does not enable one to clean in corners or under furniture.
3. The power-brush and handle are constructed so that one can lock the handle upright within the brush as a stand (as in the product picture shown). That lock is not a very stable one, if there is only a little but of pull from the hose, the handle will fall down with a loud crash, obliterating any china or vases in its way.
4. The power cord sometimes does not fully retract.
Finally -and this is no remark about this particular product-, you should consider whether a bagless vacuum really is for you. I purchased it because I wanted to get rid having to hunt for the right bag, and also b/c I wanted to save some money. However, it is quite messy to empty the dirt container. There inevitably is a plume of dust (somewhat off-setting the fact that this vacuum filters up to the HEPA anti-allergen standard), and your hands will get dirty from the muck in it. I may actually go back to a bag vacuum the next time around.