ID: B00005IBX9-R2GOBNGGNPWJ51-A257E4U95O3CHP
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1200-Central-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A257E4U95O3CHP
ReviewerName: Gary P "mighty_reader"
Date: February 9, 2003
Helpful: 21 of 22
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good coffee
Content:
My wife it the coffee drinker in the family but I make the coffee.  All I can say about the taste is that my wife likes it.  We had a Braun 12 cup that developed a leak after 5 years so I went to get another one.  What I found is that they don't make that model any more and there wasn't another model like it.  My requirements were 12 cup capacity, automatic timer that stays through a power failure, easy grounds removal, easy cleanup, warming plate.     While styling wasn't that important I did want it to look OK in the kitchen.  I almost passed this up because of it's retro style.     Now that I've used it for several months I can say I'm glad I got this model.  It comes with a reusable gold mesh filter so all you have to do is dump the grounds and rinse.  This isn't quite as easy as with my old one which also had a reusable mesh filter because it had a handle on it, whereas this one has just a loop for your finger.  It took a couple weeks of practice but now it doesn't make any difference in cleaning.  Filling with water took a little getting used to as well.  There isn't a real big area to dump the water in and it is right next to the grounds.  What I found is if you put the no drip top on and rest the spout on the edge of the coffee maker you can pour it almost as fast as you can into the opening.  The warmer has 3 settings for coffee temperature.  The medium seems about right for all day coffee drinking and the high works if you want a really hot cup of coffee.  I also like the 4 hour heat time.  That way the timer doesn't have to be reset on the weekends when you sleep later.  Since my wife works from home she only needs to reset it once by brewing again (it knows there is no water in it so it says it is done right away) to keep the coffee hot all day.  It has a self cleaning feature that also warns you when it needs it but I haven't had to use it yet.  I noticed a complaint about humidity from the coffee maker.  I don't have that problem with mine if I make sure the top is fully closed.  It does have a lot of moisture inside but it is channeled back into the coffee maker.  There is a red light to tell you that it on and a green light to tell you that it is programmed to go on at a later time.  The number of cups of water are easy to see stairsteps with numbers and it has a 4 cup setting.  I have only made 12 cups.   I have one minor complaint.  It is designed to go on a countertop which means there are usually cabinets above it.  When you fill it it fills from the top by opening a flap door that is hooked to the top.  To fill it you need to pull it out beyond any overhanging cabinets.  This could also be a problem it is used anywhere the top of the coffee maker is close to eye level as it would be difficult to fill.