ID: B000N3YBNQ-R3345ACQKHBHIA-A33NUVKG22QKRE
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL5020A-Intensity-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A33NUVKG22QKRE
ReviewerName: Frank Gagliardi
Date: July 23, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great Vacuum for Apartment Dwellers!
Content:
If I had a choice, I would live in a place with hardwood floors, but my apartment has wall-to-wall carpeting, which traps an incredible amount of dust and dog hair. I needed a vacuum with great suction, but preferred bagged over bagless, meaning Dysons were out; after doing some research, I settled on the Electrolux Intensity Upright.
To say the suction on this thing is good would be an understatement; it does such a great job that my carpets look almost brand-new after vacuuming. Although the bags are on the small side, I was surprised by how quickly I filled my first one. I guess my old Dirt Devil upright wasn't doing as good of a job as I thought it was!
The vacuum has two modes, one for carpets, and one for bare floors. It looks like the bare floors mode simply turns off the roller brush and keeps the suction on. I have only used the bare floors mode a couple of times, but it seems to work fine. The compact design is a big plus because of the limited storage space in my apartment. Cord length is adequate. The bags are small (as many reviewers have noted), but are inexpensive to replace (see Electrolux EL206A Intensity Upright Bags).
The only thing I don't like about this vacuum is how it "handles", i.e. it is difficult to turn. It's easy to use on straightaways, but working around furniture, especially table legs, is somewhat difficult. Also, it does not have a "headlight" like my old Dirt Devil. (I thought the headlight was kinda goofy, but when you don't have one, you realize how handy it really is.)
The other half of my vacuuming dynamic duo is a Eureka 71B Hand-Held Vacuum, which as I noted in my review for it, picks up what little this Electrolux leaves behind. It also has an edging tool, which I use to make up for the lack of attachments on the Electrolux. If you already own this vacuum, or are thinking about buying it, look at the Eureka held-held as a complement to it.
I am overall very happy with this vacuum. Some minor changes, in particular to the "handling" problem, probably would have earned it a fifth star. The suction cannot be beat, making it a good choice for a house with pets.