ID: B000SKQOTI-R2WXTE7GJM9ZZW-A1BMUAYVJZTSR7
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-Digital-Reduction-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A1BMUAYVJZTSR7
ReviewerName: David Lesieur
Date: January 18, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent camera at a bargain price
Content:
I am an serious amature photographer who has used Pentax 35mm, Canon 35mm, Zeiss medium format range finders, Panasonic Lumix and Sony digital cameras.  In all I've been in love with the art of photography for over 35 years.  I really enjoyed the durability and handling ease of the old Pentax SLR's (K1000, ME and P3...).  The K100D Super is the digital evolution of those great Pentax film cameras which I'm sure many of us  have been missing.  While billed as an entry level DSLR, it posesses all the manual features any experienced film shooter would be familiar with and will instantly comprehend.  In addition, it can be used in complete auto or scene modes for point and shoot users who are graduating to the SLR experience.
This is really a serious piece of gear at a great price. It is built very solidly with a metal frame and proper access doors instead of those cheap rubber flaps other manufacturers are using. It feels natural in my average size male hands and all the controls are where they should be.  Menus are easy to navigate and it takes minimum time to orient around the displays to make a variety of custom settings. Kudos to the engineers who made things so ergonomic and user friendly for both novice and veteran photographers. The pentamirror viewfinder is bright, uncluttered and all 35mm users should be right at home with the quality of the display. Dust removal, anti-shake, 11 point focus, excellent metering... it has all the useful features desired of a high quality DSLR.
Some reviewers have panned this camera for its 6.1mp sensor.  Unless you plan on making poster size prints, this is really a non-issue. Don't fall for all the pixel packing marketing hype. Pentax is to be congratulated for using a proven, excellent quality APS-C sensor which undoubtedly factors into keeping the price down (and the ISO noise down too!).  The photo processor is also proven over a couple of previous models and is top notch. The utility of using commercial AA batteries is underrated.  I often take my cameras traveling abroad and if I happen to need power in a pinch, any semi-civilized place will have batteries I can use.  Likewise, SD media is the world's most widely used mass storage format and available just about everywhere - brilliant! 
Oh yeah - the photos this camera are capable of taking are simply spectacular!  And after all, isn't that what we are ultimately trying to achieve from this art form?
Go ahead and get off the fence.  All the features you will need are in this little gem.  K-10D shooters - buy one as a backup.