ID: B000BP7MRS-R3BHXSH4VCSDTN-A17BUUBOU0598B
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Braun-KF590-Impressions-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A17BUUBOU0598B
ReviewerName: Mark "Technology, Music and Movies"
Date: June 8, 2008
Helpful: 22 of 22
Rating: 3.0
Title: The Braun KF590 - Standard Design, Quality Control Issues, Silly Price
Content:
I was lucky enough to get this Braun KF590 Impressions Digital 10-Cup Programmable Coffeemaker on sale or else I might not have tried it.  I actually am trying to replace my Braun KF510-BK AromaDeluxe 10-Cup Coffeemaker, Black.  It's also just a basic drip coffee maker but has performed well.  The bottom line was that I needed a timer, and this one has it while the 510 doesn't.
Well for starters, I was shocked to see how similar the two are.  In fact all the design elements are identical except for the front panel with the clock and buttons.  The 510 just has an red on/off switch there.  Clearly, Braun is saving their research and development dollars for other products.  Looking at all their coffeemakers in this family makes it clear they are sticking to the "if it aint broke, don't fix it" approach.
The only difference between this and the others in terms of looks is the stainless steel cover over the grinds area.  It looks nice enough I guess.
The timer did work as expected.  It's pretty intuitive, I believe that anybody could time it if they have used others.  Still, I read the whole manual, as I always do, to make sure I got everything right.  Nice features include the ability to change the auto-shutoff time.
But despite this tested design, there were some downsides. For starters, the plastic tab that holds the grinds reservoir closed seemed to be made from a slightly cheaper plastic than my old Braun.  The result?  This guy flung open at night, and I woke up to spilled hot water and no coffee.  Very annoying.  I tried taping it closed, but this didn't instill confidence in me for Braun's quality control.
Ok, I can give them the benefit of the doubt and say not every unit will have that defect.  Needless to say, I had to return mine.  
But after realizing this is basically a replica of the 510 with a clock and timer added, I had to wonder why the list price was $90?  This is just too much for a basic coffee maker with a timer.  The 510 is listed at $50 and sells for $40, which also seems high.  Still, did they think adding a timer justified $40 or $50 more?  Even the 590's prevailing price of $60 seems borderline high to me, but I could accept it if this unit was without flaws.
There are some minor flaws that seem the same as my old Braun.  The reservoir does leak water if you move it at all after brewing, which is a minor annoyance.  The steam does seem to escape from the top during brewing.  And the carafe is designed so you have to pour very slowly or it will spill.  Another minor issue, not a huge knock.
Still, after dealing with this first hand, I think there are better values to be had.  For the price of this unit, I can get a low end grind and brew unit that will make fresher coffee.  
  
For the black and steel look, it looks nice enough.  As long as you know what you are getting, this might fit your needs.
Once again not a bad unit, but perhaps a little overpriced.  And check yours well to make sure it's not defective.
Enjoy.