ID: B000KG78XG-RUAOG0BOJGEE5-A3HLPKC51RGH2J
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Leica-V-Lux-1-Megapixel-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A3HLPKC51RGH2J
ReviewerName: Jack P. Hailman "zoologist"
Date: January 2, 2008
Helpful: 41 of 43
Rating: 4.0
Title: Twice the price it should be
Content:
Being a field biologist specializing in the study of animal behavior, I wanted a camera with high resolution (10 mp), good optical zoom (at least 10x), minimal delay between shutter release and recording on the CCD, fully manual focus option, video capacity, and reasonably light weight for carrying on my neck through the day.  The Leica V-Lux 1 fits the bill as no heavy DSLR could possibly do.  Similar "advanced" cameras by Canon, Fujifilm, and Nikon have less resolution or smaller zoom, or both, as well as other deficiencies.  The Leica has proven to be a wonderful camera with which I have (in only a few months) taken an estimated 4000 photos -- but the price is a bit of a rip-off.  
	Before explaining the rip-off, I report one annoying and initially alarming problem with the camera.  In the field, in the low humidity environment of Patagonia (Chile), drizzle began and while the camera was under my rain jacket and did not get wet, the CCD went screwy.  At first it put a purple haze over everything (viewfinder or LCD, viewing or playback, and permanent on the photo when downloaded).  This aberration then turned to black and white horizontal lines.  Nothing in the manual's troubleshooting section mentions this problem, although p. 5 deals with condensation fog, which I suppose this was an unusual version of.  The camera was unusable for half a day, and then the patient spontaneously recovered from its strange malady.
	Returning to the rip-off, according to Wikipedia, all the Leica digital cameras (with two trivial exceptions) are actually made by Panasonic in Japan.  The excellent lens systems appear to have been developed jointly by the two companies.  Panasonic's Lumix DMC-FZ50 is nearly identical with the Leica V-Lux 1, with obvious differences in external finishes and labels, and hidden differences in the firmware, so that Leica processes white balance, noise reduction, etc. differently.  If you don't want to pay for the Leica label, buy the Panasonic version at approximately half the price.  (Yes, the pricing is really that different.)
	If you've already naively bought the Leica as I did -- or decide you want it despite the small difference from the Panasonic -- at least be aware that all the accessories are interchangeable (and again, the Panasonic versions run about half the price).  Third party batteries and chargers are cheaper yet.  Furthermore, Leica apparently does not post their manuals online for download, so go to Panasonic's website and get a pdf of the Lumix DMC-FZ50.
	Finally, I could not find that either Leica or Panasonic markets a teleconverter lens for the V-Lux/Lumix although such are mentioned on pp. 97-99 of "the" manual.  (Yes, even the pagination is the same for the Leica and Panasonic manuals.)  However, Olympus makes a 1.7x teleconverter with 55 mm diameter screw mount that fits the V-Lux/Lumix.  That combines for a zoom of over 20x, and works just fine with my Leica.  Panasonic DMC-FZ50 10.1MP Digital Camera with 12x Optical Image Stabilized Zoom (Black)