ID: B00008VFCR-R22N4D9UAOJZMD-A3DHEG2YDQZ24H
Category: MP3Players
Product: RCA-Lyra-64-MP3-Player
ReviewerID: A3DHEG2YDQZ24H
ReviewerName: Christopher Anderson "tulsastorm"
Date: November 28, 2004
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: The best of the Muvo and the Mojo combined
Content:
I already own a Creative Nomad Jukebox and an MP3 CD player.  Yes, the Jukebox can hold my entire collection of MP3's, but I have to use special software to load them, the thing is quite bulky, and goes through batteries like there is no tomorrow.  The CD player has a good battery life, but doesn't work very well if you are moving around a lot, and, again, requires special software to burn the files to CD.  Looking for something better, I found the 64mb Lyra under $50 at one of the *mart's, so I decided to try it.  The player is a little less than the size of a pack of gum.  I've used it for about 30-60 minutes everyday for the past 3 weeks on the original battery that came in the box, and it is still going.  I purchased a 512mb SD card, so I can listen to all my favorite songs.  With or without the card, the thing boots much faster than my old Jukebox and MP3 CD player.   It plays MP3's in the order they were uploaded.  With the latest firmware, the Lyra will auto-resume on the last track that was playing when you turned it off.  It will also show up as a removable drive in Windows, so there is no need to install the software on the CD.  The player I purchased already had the newest firmware, but I'm sure there are some in the stores that don't.
I've owned enough portable music players to know to toss the included headphones in a drawer and use my Koss KSC50's instead.  I think the headphones have more to do with how a player sounds than the electronics inside.  The volume is ok, but difficult to hear over my lawn mower.  The display is tiny, but sufficient.  Also included is an armband carrying case.  The player is small enough to fit in my pocket, but I'd prefer a belt clip so I could access the controls without having to dig it out each time.  That's really the only negative that I found with this player.
Unlike the Muvo, the Lyra has a display and is expandable, and unlike the Mojo, the Lyra shows up as a removable drive in Windows.  Try pricing the 64MB model with an SD card of your choice and see how it compares to a comparable-sized flash MP3 player.  I think you'll find the Lyra is the better deal.