ID: B000VDQ38E-RGL1SG2BB53KG-A3V9I4LPY73JTX
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A3V9I4LPY73JTX
ReviewerName: B. Cooper
Date: March 7, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Vacuum
Content:
Boy, was I anticipating the arrival of this vacuum!  Our household has 3 cats and one dog, so we have pet hair!  We have a cleaning service that comes in once every two weeks and I thought they were doing a good job.  Well, I guess they were doing the best job they could with the vacuum we provided them.  The reason behind replacing our vacuum was because of waking each morning stuffy and with a sinus headache. I had tried everything else. The first place I vacuumed was our bedroom.  Let me tell you....our bedroom is only 12x16 and full of furniture.  After the 1st round of vacuuming, the dirt cup was full.  So I went around again, cup was full again.  So I went around a 3rd time....this time, not so much dirt/hair. We were just amazed.  The carpeting is 2 years old.  And the carpeting looks brighter, I'm not kidding. A lot of carpet fuzz came up along with the fur/hair and dirt. I've been vacuuming the bedroom everyday and it's just amazing how much dir/hair and carpet fuzz is captured. 
Of course, I couldn't wait to vacuum the rest of the house and the red corduroy couch, which the cats love to sleep on and is covered in gray fur. I used the attachment for the couch and it removed the fur very easily! Again, we were amazed with the amount of dirt/hair that was vacuumed up in all the rooms.  We have hardwood downstairs with area rugs and still there was a tremendous amount of debris vacuumed up. I continue to vacuum the entire house after work to get all the hair/dirt that has acculated over the years. What a difference a vacuum makes. 
The vacuum is much lighter and very easy to use compared to my old Dirt Devil. The attachments ride along on the vacuum and are easy to attach. 
Overall, this is the best vacuum I've ever owned!