ID: B0002U9L12-R1VRGC8G7QZU1B-A2TVVGLQAFF4PM
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Mr-Coffee-Thermal-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A2TVVGLQAFF4PM
ReviewerName: Steven Bragdon "pen name"
Date: March 26, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: good coffee maker but quirky
Content:
I've had one of these for about 2 years, and I'd like to add my observations.
  Yes the lid is different, it requires a half turn to pour and must be screwed back down to put in the machine for brewing. This is not a hardship, but takes getting used to. 
  The holes in the back keep you from overfilling the machine with water. I have filled it the night before and then done it again in the blurriness of morning only to have a flood on the counter. Very bad way to start the day, but not the coffee makers fault.
  As to the temperature, the carafe is heavy gauge for a coffee maker and does require some hot water to warm up. This can be a bit of a hardship as i don't want to wait any longer than I have to. The temp is especially bad if having filled the reservoir with cold water from the carafe and taking the first cup before the pot is done brewing, what you have essentially done is cool the carafe, and then not allowed it to be warmed by at least being filled. You can get around this by brewing with hot tap water. I know this is a coffee no no, but if the hot water you're using isn't overly treated by a water softener, you probably won''t be able to tell the difference. I can't anyway. It stays hot for a couple of hours, and warm for longer.
  As to the machine shutting off before the pot is done, that's the signal that the machine needs cleaning. Deposits make the coil heat up to much, and shuts the machine down. I don't think this is an intended feature but it is handy none the less. I just run a pint of vinegar through twice, and then water twice and it's good for another sixty pots. I wouldn't buy a machine that didn't have an auto shut off, fire hazard you know.
  Finally, this is a basket brewer, and so takes about a third more coffee than a cone filter type. So if you're grinding Kona or Sumatra that you're paying 20$ a pound for then at least find a cone filtered brewer. Or better yet a French press.   But for the daily morning Maxwell House this machine works well.