ID: B0009OR98I-R2VHRQQVA21OEA-A28EXTZ2ZR4Y7G
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Metro-Vacuum-OV-4BCSF-Professional-4-Horsepower
ReviewerID: A28EXTZ2ZR4Y7G
ReviewerName: SunPro
Date: January 20, 2008
Helpful: 18 of 18
Rating: 5.0
Title: The Little Vac that Could!! - Powerful & Lightweight
Content:
Purchase requirements - Small - Lightweight - Powerful - Quiet - Long Hose
1.) Small - when I first received my shipment, I was a bit taken aback.  The Box was 4'x2'x 1-1/2'.  Gosh it was huge and a bit heavy (for a vac). Slowly I opened the package to find another box.  A bit relieved, the size seemed a bit more appropriate. I quickly opened the box to find another box.  Now we are talking - once this box was opened, I saw what I wanted - a small, good looking, lightweight vac! The Stainless Steel did give the vac a professional appearance.
2.) Lightweight - Definitely meets the bill.  No larger in width and length than my keyboard, there will be no problem moving this vac about.
3.) Powerful - I didn't expect much from all the claims (4 horsepower and 95" of waterlift), but this little vac made me a believer in power.  This is the first time I only needed to use the crevice tool for awkward corners.  Those little pieces of fuzz and hairs that usually needed picked up with your fingers came right up.  The seems in upholstery that filled with dust - clean!
4.) Quiet - My subjective is opinion says this machine is quiet for such a powerful vac.  In fact, my IQAir Air Cleaner is louder.  Switch the 2-speed switch to low (works similar to my old shop vac and this speed); now we are talking quiet!
5.) Long Hose - The 6.5 foot hose, lightweight and flexible does not make the grade.  It's adequate for my purposes, but I may purchase a hose extension.
CONS: 
1.) The dust bag is quite small (approx. 7" diameter by 5" deep) - this is to be expected in such a tiny package.
2.) Tools look and feel cheap, which is quite typical for all brands.  They are however, effective.