ID: B000TGDGLU-R4DW3W3OURAE5-A2JH8ONHUDDJ12
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-EW7707CM-Oil-filled-ComforTemp-Technology
ReviewerID: A2JH8ONHUDDJ12
ReviewerName: James S.
Date: October 19, 2008
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great heater but...
Content:
I own 3 of these. I got one to test out and then added 2 more (one for each bedroom to try to combat high central heating costs). I have had them for just over a month and will update this review if any of them break or I discover something worth mentioning here. 
The initial impressions are: 
The heater works great. Allow about 1/2 hour to warm up any room bigger than 10x10. My 15x15 bedroom stays warm on Low setting with a thermostat set to 4 with mid-40 degrees outside (this old house has a below average insulation). 
The heater is totally silent. In the beginning, one of the 3 heaters made some crackling noise for about an hour after being turned on. I called DeLonghi support (which was good, by the way!) and was told that it's normal and has to do with how the heater was handled during delivery and that I should expect it to stop making these sounds after several uses. It did stop making the sound pretty much that day!
      
For the energy conscious, the heater consumes 1500 Watts when both MEDIUM and LOW (but not ComforTemp) buttons are pressed. The ComforTemp button maintains the room temperature of ~70 degrees and delivers 27% energy savings. When the LOW button is pressed, the energy consumption is 700 Watts. When the MEDIUM button is pressed, the energy consumption is 800 Watts. By comparison, my relatively new Sharp 12,000 BTU AC consumes 1,150 Watts.  
Note, the ComforTemp button gets "stuck" when the heater is hot. So you'll have to wait for the heater to cool off to depress it. 
It would be nice if the heater was more portable. While it has wheels to roll from room to room on the same floor, if you plan to carry it between floors while it's still hot, don't even try. In general, it's not very portable between floors as it has only 1 side handle and it's quite heavy. 
The ultimate question is: would I buy it again? Based on my experience with this heater so far I would say YES without hesitating.
EDIT: After a month of light use one of the heaters started leaking oil. Luckily, it is still within returns period with Amazon so it will be shipped back tomorrow.