ID: B00006F2MI-R9VETRH16C7LN-A20ARIIXG0622C
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Grind-Brushed-Chrome
ReviewerID: A20ARIIXG0622C
ReviewerName: Kennyo "Engineer"
Date: December 8, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: What is all the fuss about?
Content:
After reading many of the reviews for this grind and brew coffee maker I was persuaded to steer clear but my wife had a chance to buy one for $10 at our local thrift shop. Apparantly it was too complicated for someone. Have I been glad she did.  It makes wonderful coffee but obviously the process of making coffee from beans is not for everyone.  First, you have to thoroughly read the operating manual.  Second you must use some common sense when using the coffee maker.  Let me give you some cautions:
When filling do not put water over the last step (10 cup) or it will overflow the carraf.  I first started by turning off the grinder and putting ground coffee in the basket to get a feel for how it would brew.  It makes a good pot of coffee this way.  Next I started using beans.  The grinder is very quick and is not as noisy as a conventional counter top grinder.  But, some cautions.  Clean the grinder and mesh basket shortly after use.  This does not have to be rigorous cleaning. Rinse the cover and grinder under the sink tap before the grounds dry out and stick.  The same goes for the basket.  I found out that when I did this, cleaning was no problem.  Before using again, I use a paper towel to dry the inside of the grinder bowl and top.  Less fines build up this way so no residue in the pot.  If you let the fines build up in the grinder basket and top they will eventually get into the coffee.  Intuitively, I have to believe that changing the water filter every 2-3 months as recommended will keep the brewed coffee at it's best.
One last comment.  There are plastic parts in this thing.  Don't force them or overheat them in a dish washer unless the directions say they are dishwasher safe. And treat the machine gently without alot of hard knocks. If you are mechanically challenged or just want to make coffee the quick and dirty way, then the DGB-600 may not be the machine for you.  But if a person can handle a grind and brew machine, it does make a great cup of fresh coffee!