ID: B000EBA03M-R3D72RH1S6N2VW-A6W2FC4DD95VM
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Digital-Camera-18-180mm-f3-5-f6-3
ReviewerID: A6W2FC4DD95VM
ReviewerName: R. Kreis "livedeadcat"
Date: July 27, 2006
Helpful: 17 of 17
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great camera for serious student of digital photography
Content:
In my opinion, the Olympus E-500 is perhaps the best camera available this season for the serious student of digital photography. It has a rich feature set that provides a student with the full range of adjustments to address most situations a student is likely to encounter. The price of the two-lens kit brings it within the means of all but the most cash-strapped of starving students.  This camera and the academic version of Photoshop should more than accommodate whatever photo projects a student is likely to undertake, excluding underwater and severe weather situations.
The E-500 is a sturdy camera, plastic bodied but with a metal internal frame; it should stand up to some abuse.  Students will appreciate the Control Panel LCD, which provides quick access to almost all camera settings. Playback modes include separate histograms for R-G-B and luminance, and clipping indicators for highlights and shadows. File capture options include several compression levels of JPEG, 8-bit TIFF and 12-bit raw (ORF). The kit lenses are not the world's best, but they are certainly competent, capable of producing results that should pass muster for all but the most critical student eye.
For students, I think the main limitations of the E-500 include a small viewfinder that makes manual focus a chore and the lack of a wired remote.  Rumors of noise at high ISO settings and slow multi-exposure performance may be true, but should not be a problem for most students.
I think students should be careful not to spend too much money on camera equipment at this point in their careers.  True, more money buys better optics, higher performance and better build quality, but that should be viewed in the light of the rapid obsolescence cycles experienced by today's cameras.  Digital cameras should be regarded as little more than computer peripherals, subject to the same rapid technological advances experienced by all computer gear. Why should a student want to spend extra for a fancy camera that will be superceded next season and be obsolete in three seasons?  The premium a student would pay for a higher-tone camera might better be spent on a digitizing tablet (Wacom Intuos3 6x8) or a good TTL flash unit (Olympus FL-36).  I advise students to wait on the high-end gear until they can take it off their taxes as a business expense. 
Students who drive Porsches to school may disregard all of the above.