ID: B000IOTREI-R36C7KQ8TK75GJ-A3TZYUFW8CXYPE
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Presto-HeatDish-Plus-Footlight-Parabolic
ReviewerID: A3TZYUFW8CXYPE
ReviewerName: Tamas Demjen
Date: January 15, 2007
Helpful: 47 of 51
Rating: 3.0
Title: Strong, directed heat
Content:
I've been having this product for almost 2 years now. It was designed to direct heat to a small area. Unfortunately I did not find the HeatDish a good heater even for keeping a single person warm. If you direct it towards you, you'll be burning so much, even through your clothing, that it actually hurts. You move just a bit farther, and you'll feel very little warm sensation. What usually happens is that one side of mine is burning, while my other side is totally cold.
The heat coming out of this HeatDish is very focused to a small area. You will instantly start feeling the heat, in fact so much heat that it literally burns you. At the same time, other areas of the room will remain cold for a long time. Since the HeatDish doesn't have a fan, it absolutely doesn't help evenly distributing the heat. If you need to heat the entire room, you should be able to find a much better heater, one that oscillates (rotates the heating grille) and uses a fan.
The HeatDish is entirely silent while it's on. However, it has a fairly loud rattling noise when it turns on -- and in the low setting, it does turn on and off every 15 seconds or so. It is a bit hard to sleep hearing the heater clicking. It's very bright, too: The entire parabola dish lights up, making the room as bright as daylight. I occasionally need a heater that can keep my bedroom warm for the night, for the case the central heater goes wrong, and this is not the right equipment for that.
There's no way of setting the temperature with the HeatDish. You can adjust its power from low to high, but it has little to do with keeping a preset temperature, even approximately. In most cases it's too hot in the evening and very cold by the morning. If there's no one to occasionally adjust the temperature, it will not be very comfortable. For example, it doesn't work well for me as a night-time heater. It doesn't have a timer either.
My HeatDish went wrong after less than 2 years of very occasional use (I normally use central heating, a gas furnace). It no longer turns off, it always heats at its maximum power, so I can no longer leave it alone. You should not draw any conclusions from this -- things go wrong sometimes. When it was working, it was regulating the temperature by periodically turning the ceramic element on and off. When it's on, it is very, very hot. There was never a way to lower the actual power of the heating element.
Safety: If the HeatDish is not entirely horizontal, it instantly makes an exceptionally loud alarming sound. You can not possibly tip it over without noticing it. In fact, it is nearly impossible to move this heater around while it's on without sounding its alarm.
Verdict: If you need an instant heater that makes a tiny area of the room super hot in no time, it does the job. It does a dissatisfying job at distributing the heat, even to a small area like a sofa, or automatically keeping a preset temperature.