ID: B000BY52NK-R1AGCAASF7DYVR-A1BXL4HWBDRTM0
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D200-10-2MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A1BXL4HWBDRTM0
ReviewerName: Steve Maloney "RE4U"
Date: November 8, 2006
Helpful: 28 of 31
Rating: 5.0
Title: Wonderful camera
Content:
I've owned various ditigal cameras, (Canon S210, Nikon 990, Nikon S1) and many, many 35mm cameras over the years. Most the digital stuff I've owned have been pretty disappointing. Agreed, anyone who buys a Nikon 990 for $900 when it first arrived probably should have their head examined. Call me an "early adopter". This time I was going to wait. I held off on my desire to purchase the D70, after my sister, who is a professional photographer bought it and in short order gave it to her son to use on school projects and hasn't seen it since (read: thought it was trash). 
So I passed on the D70. But, when the D200 came around I could not hold my impluse any longer. I bought. Albeit with the less than optimal 18-200 lens that everyone is a-gaga about. The standard lens that ships, is just fine for me. (17-100 or close to that). Here's the deal. This camera is a dream. I works for me to the point that I have to repeat my last trip to Italy so I can re-take all those shots with this camera rather than the stupid point and shoot Canon I had. 
I am obviously not an in-the-weeds techie kind of guy about my use of this camera. And honestly, its probably more camera than I need. BUT. It takes fantasic pictures. I mean really fanastic pictures. I have a Nikon F3hp systems; motor drive, and five Nikkor lenses and all sorts of other stuff, in a camera bag under my bed. This camera does everything that camera can do and lots, lots more. The motor drive is absolutely amazing. The blue angles were flying in San Francisco this fall. I took this camera and married it to an old 300mm manual lens from the previous mentioned system I own and got some amazing pictures, simply by following one plane at 400+ mph and shooting continuously. Ask and I will share. 
In the end, if you're looking to expand your photographic horizons or just want to get really clear, crisp shots and don't mind carrying around a 35mm form factor, you can't go wrong. It will be a long time before I'll be compelled to move to a different camera, this one has it all.