ID: B000G1CXZI-RUO546I3O7OA7-A2W1NM2D6DZRRL
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-TRN0812T-Portable-Oil-Filled-Programmable
ReviewerID: A2W1NM2D6DZRRL
ReviewerName: M. Dilger "tools rool"
Date: February 22, 2007
Helpful: 59 of 60
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Oil-filled Heater
Content:
This is the second Delonghi oil heater that I purchased through Amazon & I am completely satisfied with both of them.  (I also purchased the Delonghi HM25E Dragon Ultimate Oil Filled Radiator Heater purchased in 2005, twice the cost, twice the heater.)
I like the size of this smaller one a little more -- it fits better into the small space where I am using it.  We use it in a 10' x 10' main bathroom.  The room is not insulated (85 year old home) and gets almost no heat from the home's central heating system (radiated water heat).  
I have used it every day this winter and found that it is more than adequate for this room, even on the coldest winter days.  The temperature recently has dropped to -5 F overnight (Chicago) and I have the heater set on high to turn on 60-90 minutes before I get up.  The bathroom is always nice and toasty in the AM, even though the exterior wall is cold to the touch.  
I was concerned about the safety of using an electric heater in the bathroom because of electric shock and fire risk.  No problem on either account.  I recommend using a GFCI electric outlet to reduce the risk of electric shock; also, the oil-filled radiator does not build up an excessive amount of heat (as long as you don't cover it - keep it open so heat can radiate away from it). 
The heater has on/off switches (one for high, one for low) and a electro-mechanical timer.  You set the current time with the dial, then set the timer to turn on & off as much as you wish during the day.  You can be accurate to within about 15-30 minutes.  The unit must stay plugged in for it to keep accurate time.  Electronic LED timers (like on the Delonghi Dragon) can be set more accurately, but usually have a limited number of on/off automatic settings (Dragon has a limit of 2).  
This heater also has a "thermostat" of sorts.  It doesn't give a temperature, just gives a min/max range of 1-6 (my other one goes to 11).  A 6 setting for about an hour is necessary for a toasty 10x10 bathroom at 0 degrees F, while setting at 3 for an hour is sufficient at 32 degrees.
Energy consumption - my electric bill increased only about $8-10/mo from fall to winter, a small price to pay.  
The heater is short (about 16-18 inches)& very stable, fits under my pedestal sink between the sink & tub - perfect spot.  It gets hot to the touch, but not so that you (or a child) might burn yourself.