ID: B000VX7VJO-R2S81GWRB48ZOC-AO9SULMU9LL18
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Breville-BKC600XL-Gourmet-Single-Cup-Coffee
ReviewerID: AO9SULMU9LL18
ReviewerName: Dead_Cow
Date: January 10, 2008
Helpful: 10 of 16
Rating: 3.0
Title: Good, but way overpriced. There are better options than this.
Content:
I receieved this coffee maker as a gift. I also own a Keurig B60. After 2 weeks of use, I can honestly say that in my opinion, this is a downgrade to B60, despite the cost difference. 
Pros:
1 - It sure does look pretty!
2 - Water filter (pro or con?) - you can use the filter that is included, but you don't have to, only for really hard water, or for people that think running the water through a small charcoal filter will dramatically improve the taste of their coffee. I put mine in as a novelty, but when it wears out, I probably won't replace it. Manual doesn't recommend using or not using. Says you can do either and explains the benefits/drawbacks. I'd be more likely to use a filter on the tap, or a Brita water jug rather than buy Breville BKC600RF Gourmet Single Cup Coffee Brewer Replacement Filters, 12-Pack.
3 - Place to hold the (included) "My K-Cup" and (included) measuring scoop - it's great that's it's all in one place, but it's a large unit. I'd kind of expect it (see con of this compartment below).
4 - It makes coffee!!
Cons: 
1 - Build - it looks solidly made, but it's not. It's made of plastic, wrapped in what appears to be brushed aluminum, or possibly stainless steel, but it's not heavy enough to be stainless steel. If I were to push down too hard on the brewhead, I believe the brewhead would snap right off, not that I would need (or want) to do that. It just doesn't feel like an appliance that will last a long time.
2 - Noise - this coffee maker is at least twice as loud as the B60 while filling the brew chamber, and makes things on my counter within close proximity vibrate and come alive.
3 - Power switch - It's on the right bottom rear corner of the machine. Did anyone think I might turn this on and off daily? How about putting the power switch where I can get to it? Like the top, or front?
4 - "Soft touch open" "My K-Cup" compartment - press down on the top and it hinges up to reveal the "My K-Cup" and measuring scoop. Very, VERY slowly. If you need to get at either, plan to wait until the compartment is fully open in about 30 seconds, or forcing it open, which, I would assume, will lessen the lifespan of the hinge.
5 - The water compartment could be a little easier to remove (might get easier as time goes on).
Missing:
1 - Instructions on what to do about scale build up in the brew chamber itself. I dont know, perhaps this maker isn't prone to scale, but all the other Keurig brewers I looked at were, and if it is, you need to send vinegar through the system until it's scale-free, then follow-up with water. I guess I'll find out over time.
Overall, if I had to get another brewer, it wouldn't be this one. If I was looking for a higher-end unit, I'd be more apt to get the Keurig B70, but the B60 is really sufficient enough. It certainly does it's job, and does it well (can you make a bad K-cup of coffee?), I just wish the machine felt more like what was paid for it, and wasnt' so loud while filling so that everyone in the house knows I'm making coffee.
At least I still have my B60. I can always (gladly) go back to that.