ID: B000AQPMHA-R23EVD36NXAQ3R-A2X9UY0OEG7DX
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Gourmet-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: A2X9UY0OEG7DX
ReviewerName: The Pro
Date: August 16, 2009
Helpful: 10 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great for college students!
Content:
If your a college student and looking for a coffee maker read this review before you buy. Im in my early 20's returning to college to finish my degree, and might like coffee more then the normal 18 year old.
I'll go over why i bought this instead of the B30, as well as why I bought this vs a $15 cheap coffee maker:
With the B40 vs the B30, I can do large travel cups to take to class and work, as its got a larger area for cups then the b30. I can also brew multiple cups with out having to refill the water storage area, I like that. And you get to coffee cup size choices, regular and large. I don't have a sink in my dorm room, and didn't want to mess with clean up for a $15 coffee maker, or mess with filters and messy grounds. I also don't need to brew 5 cups at once, and I don't want to wait 10 mins for a cup of coffee. The Keurig was more expensive, but the ease of use makes the price of admission worth the extra money.
This is just an initial review, I just received this coffee maker this morning. I will update this as time goes on to tell you how its going in a few weeks or months. 
First off let me say I am a coffee-aholic, I was originally going to buy a $15 WalMart 4 cup special as I was looking for cheap and and small for my new dorm room. But I was worried about having to clean up the basket and the mess of cleaning a coffee maker. I also didn't want to have to worry about grinding beans and didn't really like the flavor of pre-ground coffee in a large container that goes stale right away. I decided I didn't need a bunch of cups at once coffee maker and started looking at single serve machines. Long story short, I deiced to go with the Keurig because of the ease of pre-measured cups, just pop it in and its ready to go, super easy clean up, and a large choice of flavors (coffee and tea, hot chocolate). 
College students:
Anyway its not to big, and can be used to heat water for oatmeal as well in the morning, fits well in the dorm room, its super easy to make coffee and is no mess. The K-cups have allot to choose from (if your a big coffee fan), and its almost no effort coffee making, if your hung over or late for class, or anytime you want a coffee to study. Its cheaper then buying coffee (and tastes better) from Starbucks or the guy running the coffee stand on your campus. The K-cups do cost .50 cents per cup, but again no mess to clean up, or beans to grind, and you can buy like 200 different types of coffee for this thing right now. Its kinda like having your own private Starbucks in your room with no wait, just waiting for you to press a button for a fresh cup of good coffee. Trust me lots of coffee and study time = good grades, as well as helping you make it through your workday while you earn money to pay for class.
My first thought opening the box: I am impressed. It feels like I bought the BMW/Mercedes of coffee makers. It looks of high quality, and the instructions that are included are in a nice little paper folder. 
Brewing the first cup: Ok, the first cup was to clean out the coffee maker, so.... The second cup, I pulled the handle up, the mechanism opens, I put a K-cup in, i pulled the handle down till i heard a "click" and the two buttons (regular cup or large cup" both started flashing. I chose regular cup, and my mug filled up almost instantly. One thing I noticed, is there a grinding noise when the pump is sucking up the water from the reservoir but, but don't worry its not to loud. 
I drank the coffee black to see how it tasted. At first I thought it tasted a little watered down, but it still tasted good. Tasted just like a cup you would order from Starbucks or any local coffee shop. There were not any grinds in the cup from the process.
I immediately brewed another cup, with a different brand of coffee. This one tasted really good, and not watered down. Added some milk and sugar to my liking. The result: MMMMMmmmm.... A super good cup of coffee.... And again no mess to clean up, and its ready to brew again as soon as I throw away the used K-cup. 
I've brewed several more, and Im sold on this Coffee maker, its easy, fast and good. It does cost more then most bulk cup coffee makers, but if you like the idea of going one cup at a time, and no mess, and large selection of coffee to choose from, its worth it in my opinion to spend a little extra and go with this nice coffee maker. 
You might not want to buy this if:
This might not be the coffee maker for you if you are going to be making a large batch for a group of people, and want it all done at the same time. As well as if you don't have $100 to drop on a coffee maker, and its just not important to you (You may want to just use Instant in that case). As I said you can pick up a cheapo coffee maker for $15-10 now a days, that will make 5 cups. But it won't be as nice as this one or the K cup system.
Why am I writing a review? Well, I normally use them to help select a product, and in this case the review helped me choose something thats important in starting my morning (Coffee!), and thought I'd help out people who are trying to pick the right one for them. I hope this helps someone.