ID: B000V5LX00-RUZZNTE3V1N72-A3RXG20IE7WDO0
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-1Ds-Mark-III-Digital
ReviewerID: A3RXG20IE7WDO0
ReviewerName: Alaskan Photo Workshops & Tours "Visit www.Ph...
Date: January 21, 2008
Helpful: 68 of 71
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best DSLR on the market
Content:
Well if you are looking at this fine piece of Photographic equipment odds are you have been to the Canon website and read the specs.  I will touch on a few of the items I have noticed since I purchased mine and have been using it.
1st.  The feel, just like the 1D M3, this beast is solid.  Not too heavy, but solid in the hand.  And here in Alaska, I do put the weather sealing to a test, and just like my trusty 1D M3, the 1Ds passes with flying colors.
2nd.  Yes its 21.1 MP, but that should not be your main consideration to buy it.   Yah 18x12 @ 300Dpi out of the Camera is nice, but nost people dont print over 16x20, and I have sold a lot of prints from my old 20D at that size or even upto 20x30, as long as you shoot it right in the first place.  But this is also a drawback as well.  Because of the large file size, esp in Raw, and most, if not all, buyers of this body will/should be shooting in raw, be aware that you will need larger CF cards for it.  At least 8gig, I use 12Gig for mine, extreme 3's and they work great!  Also be aware if you use the internal high iso noise processing, it slows down the buffering a lot!!!
3rd.  Full Frame, just like the earlier 1Ds models its a ful frame sensor.  That means 2 things, not only does a 17mm or 14mm lens again be a true wide angle lens, but also with the larger sensor the pixels are more refined and this gives better color and less grain.
4th.  The colors of the images in the files.  WOW  Again the 14bit processors are great!!!  Esp for raw, where you can import it in as 16bit for the finer details.  One draw back is if you use Photoshop, you will need CS3 to do the raw Conversions, unless you use the Canon program.
5th.  You are approaching the image quality of a Dig MF camera, with the portability of a Dslr!  Not to mention you can use all the Canon EF lenses, and this camera really should only be used with L series lenses when possible, except for the fisheye as its not made in an L series but the quality is very good anyways.  As the Quality of the optics is what affects the quality of the image the most, other than settings in the camera, ie shutterspeed and AV, ISO, etc...
6th.  Wonderful Accesories for the camera.  I love my wft-e2a.  I use it on my 1D M3 a lot and it works great on the 1ds as well.  Its a great way to control your camera remotely or to send your files to a remote computer for processing and such while you are still shooting.
This Camera is great.  I have used the new nikon d3, and its a much improved camera over the past models, but it does not compare to the top of the line Canon!!!!  This camera will not let you down.  The noise if shot right is not even noticed until iso 1600 and then you still got to look.  ISO 3200 is still great (about the same noise/grain my buddy had on his d200 at iso 400!!!!!)!  If you are a Pro and need a camera that can perform the best and give wonderful results, this is it.  It kicks butt compared to anything else in the DSLR market!!!