ID: B000TTSXNI-R1PLFWKXZCCRF3-A2KUU2QE4Z6BUU
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Lasko-751320-Ceramic-Heater-Control
ReviewerID: A2KUU2QE4Z6BUU
ReviewerName: Primadona
Date: November 17, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great little heater saves money
Content:
I lived in an old trinity where we have a heater in each room so we can regulate it. Our usual winter bill is about $200 though it was a bit higher the year before cuz my roommate from texas just kept cranking everything up and i usually had my heater in my bedroom upstairs off since most of the heat from the 2nd floor just came put to my room. Anyway, i got this heater and had another roommate living on the 2nd floor who turns the heat on even when he's away for a month. So i kept using this heater, i didn't turn on the heater upstairs and all i relied on was this.
I have to say it does a wonderful job. i like the remote control aspect of it cuz once you memorize where everything is at, you don't need to open your eyes at nite to crank it up, just push the button. I like the thermostat in it, it's just wonderful. This heater really heats soo well. i haven't had any issue with the cord. i used all winter last year and instead of our usual $200 for two people, the highest bill was $125 and that includes my roommate using his part of the heat normally so it sure did save us money. this year, i've been using it  in my room and it still works fine.
It's definately a great investment. Peco charges so a good amount for using electric heat so getting this heater made me a lot less to Peco. It's good a for big enough bedroom with 2 closets, my room was the only thing on the third floor so it was big. i didn't want to shelve this much money for a heater, i wanted the $20 ones at cvs but i'm glad i did and i don't regret one single bit. For someone who's never used gas heat and always uses electric, i do see a difference on my bill. i got this heater out in october and i'll be using it to keep warm all winter.