ID: B00005AXJD-R204D0YF1V0XMI-A3QSEWCE23LW5C
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Briel-ED132AFB-Espresso-Machine-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3QSEWCE23LW5C
ReviewerName: "costas_t"
Date: March 16, 2004
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 3.0
Title: You get what you pay for
Content:
I've been using this machine everyday for the last two years and although it's decent I wouldn't recommend it without any reservations. Overall I'm satisfied with the machine, taking into account how much money I've saved by not going to Starbucks, but I'm ready for an upgrade.I agree with most reviewers that the espresso it produces is pretty good. Drip coffee is another story. There are some fundametal flaws with the design of the drip coffee compartment. Filling it up is an adventure. Half the water usually ends on the counter. There's no water level indicators inside the water tank, so you have to use the glass carafe to fill it with water. This usually results in a mess. In addition, you end up with less coffee than what you thought because some steam escapes from the top.As far as the espresso compartment is concerned there are some problems too. First of all, the cup size selector is NOT consistent. The dial is pretty inaccurate, so you'll have to experiment until you get it right. Depending on the grind size you may have to change the setting a lot. So keep an eye on it!Second of all, the heating element doesn't function very well. The green light (water temperature indicator) is erratic. It will be on, letting me know that the water is ready to make coffee, but it will then go off half way into making a serving. This usually happens if I want to make 2 servings, one after the other. To overcome this, I usually have to wait for the light to go off and come on again, which can add several minutes between espressos. Lately, this happens even if I'm only making one serving. Making coffee with tepid water? NOT NICE.In conclusion, if you're tight on budget this is a decent choice. If you can spend a little bit more, skip it.