ID: B00006JL08-R2W50ZM9DMM6VS-A1P5D6DFEKP1JS
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Braun-KF580-AromaDeluxe-TimeControl-Coffemaker
ReviewerID: A1P5D6DFEKP1JS
ReviewerName: Eman
Date: October 29, 2004
Helpful: 32 of 40
Rating: 1.0
Title: Quality No Longer There.
Content:
I've owned Braun's basic coffee maker for over 15 years now, which has been absolutely great and has worked flawlessly all of this time. Last spring I decided to upgrade to their new model. After purchasing the new model. It developed a leak. I exchanged it at the home store where I purchased it from. The second one started to leak too. I've had nothing but leakage problems from 2 of them now, and the units were 4 months apart in the exchange process. The 2nd one I had to send back to Gillette. It just arrived last night and this morning as it finished brewing it started leaking again. Even more than before (around the electric cord in the back and the display and buttons in the front this time). I sent it in for servicing upon Gillette's request, which Gillette made me pay for the shipping. This is a brand new defective product. Why should the customer pay for shipping? They didn't even offer to provide me with any extra water filters or anything. I will email them later today to set up a call time. If they don't correct it this time around or provide me with a suitable replacement then my brand loyalty to them will cease to exist... 
On the positive side. This is a truly stunning coffee maker. It brews an excellent pot of coffee. They finally got the carafe right. No drips at all!!! :^) I absolutely love the auto-timer on it. It was the coffee maker that fit all of my needs (size, color, features, etc...) 
Features: 
- Non Slip Open Handle Design 
- Quick Release Filter Basket Button 
- Pause and Serve Feature 
- 24 Hour Digital Clock and Timer 
- Adjustable Auto Shut-Off 
- Gold Tone Filter 
- Brita Water Filter 
- Good Housekeeping Replacement/Refund Promise Stamped on 
the box (Don't know the validity of that though so unable to comment on it) 
Update as of 10/07/04: 
Gillette is supposed to replace the unit with a brand new one from them. They have assured me that I should not have any further problems with the new unit. They will be sending me out a shipping label in order for me to return the 2nd bad unit first before they send out the new unit. 
Hello.....Where is customer service here? They should be sending me the new unit first with the shipping label in it so I don't go without a coffee maker anymore. 
I'm still awaiting the label so I can send in the defective unit. In Gillette's defense though they have been polite and courteous to date, and willing to work with me to get this resolved. I just think that some of the unnecessary steps could have been eliminated. 
Update as of 10/28/04: 
My new replacement unit arrived today. I had company over and was telling them about my ongoing problem. I opened the box and setup the brand new unit. I poured a carafe of water in and started the unit. As soon as the unit had finished its brew cycle you could see a lot of steam rising. As the unit cooled...Once Again the leak developed. At that point I made up my mind. I'm returning this unit/model. It's obvious that its a design defect. When you look closely at the design of the unit you can see the seams where the pieces of plastic have been put together and there is absolutely no gasket or sealant anywhere to be seen. I tried a quick seal with tape at the seams. It definitely helped reduce the size of the leakage puddle, but still puddled. This pretty much confirmed my thoughts on the unit. 
In Conclusion: 
Its such a shame that this unit couldn't have been properly designed and built to the standards that helped give them a name of dependability in the past. I will box this unit up and return it. My search for a good coffee maker appears to be in full swing once again. 
PS - Mine was made in the Czech Republic.  When having talked with Braun/Gillette they asked me if it was made there.  Hello... They know of the problem and aren't making a recall...