ID: B0007QKMSC-RLCYLETJ4PK86-A2OMC739WLWIK
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-Camera
ReviewerID: A2OMC739WLWIK
ReviewerName: Ian Martinez "Suntoksabwan"
Date: September 8, 2006
Helpful: 17 of 20
Rating: 5.0
Title: Happiness right out of the box
Content:
After all the lament, all the salivating and frustration in walking by camera stores and dropping in on websites, I now have in my hands MY VERY OWN BNEW CANON EOS 350D!!!
I love the way it re-orients the picture, I love the way the separate monochrome LCD can be lit up to show camera exposure settings in the dark, I love the way the camera handles, and I love the way it responds when I use it with my strobes.
I used it yesterday on a paid shoot (I do dabble in these things sometimes) and geeee whiz!!!  I think my photography had been suddenly bumped up to another level...like way up there kinda level.  It was like "the artist had been freed".
I love the way I can select which focusing point to use and the way the picture files store info on which focusing point was used to take the shot.  I love the software that came with it - it was like all my organizing and picture sorting wish list was suddenly exhausted.  I love the resolution and how the colors came out.
I am particularly impressed on how the built-in flash handles.  It illuminates the scene like a genius.  If it can do that with the flash, heck, I can only begin to imagine what other impressive things it can do.  I also love the way how fast it responds to my commands and I feel as if no emotion or spontaneous going on can go by me without me capturing it.
There are just so much to love about this camera guys.  It was designed so well that you can start using it and benefiting from its more advanced features right out of the box!  Who needs the manual eh?  
I have a feeling that I will be very happy with this camera in the years to come.  If I can sum up what I think about this camera:  it is happiness straight from the box.  =b