ID: B000LNTAWK-R3NZR8KBJFOVM4-A27AG4P7GFH88
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-135mm-3-5-5-6G
ReviewerID: A27AG4P7GFH88
ReviewerName: Pipper
Date: July 2, 2007
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: So happy that I bought this camera!
Content:
I really didn't think that I wanted to spend this much money on a digital camera. I'm just an amateur who enjoys photography. I tried the Digital Rebel, Olympus E-500, Nikon D-50 and D-40: these were all fine cameras, but they still seemed lacking to me. I thought that the Canon EOS-30D was terrific with it's 5fps, build quality, and numerous options, but the price was still too steep. After mulling it over long and hard, I decided to spend even more money and get the D200. This is a camera that I won't feel is lacking for a very long time. It's at the sweet spot of the price/performance curve: after this point, I think that diminishing returns begin unless you're a professional who relies on their camera for a living. I am most impressed with the exposure meter and the LCD review screen: it seems to get exposures correct much more often than the other cameras that I've tried. I spent a lot of time changing settings on the other cameras to get the right exposure, but the D200 gets it right most of the time in Programmed Auto! The LCD screen accurately shows the picture that was taken; whereas, the other cameras' screens would show different results than would ultimately appear on my monitor or in print. One more great feature that the Canon EOS-30D didn't have is Auto ISO: this is awesome, and it works great!
I suggest that every newbie to this camera go to Ken Rockwell's site and download his free D200 user's guide: he explains the camera and all of its settings in straightforward language. He tells you how he configures his D200 and why he configures it that way. I found the manual much easier to comprehend after reading his guide. He also has a wealth of other info about the D200 and photography in general (such as how to use histograms), and it's all free.
The quality of this camera makes me "feel" like a better photographer: it inspires confidence. I love this camera.