ID: B000ETVKHE-R1UMSDHDH6WPEQ-A1EJ6J6N9I7W35
Category: MP3Players
Product: SanDisk-Sansa-Player-MicroSD-Expansion
ReviewerID: A1EJ6J6N9I7W35
ReviewerName: Billy Hollis
Date: September 21, 2007
Helpful: 6 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Sweet piece of gear
Content:
I've been using the E260 for about five months now, and it has been one of the better purchases I've made on Amazon. Sounds good, easy to use, fairly durable, reasonably priced, and it even looks good.
One of my teenage son's friends checked it and said he liked it better than the Nano. I agree with him that the Sansa wheel is better. It's more "sure-fingered" and I rarely pick the wrong thing with it. 
The menus are natural, and quick to use. I often change music while moving on an elliptical exercise machine, with no problems.
It coordinates reasonably well with Windows Media Player, so it's unnecessary to install any other software to use it. I can't say the integration is natural or perfect - it took some dinking around to get Media Player to copy over just the music I wanted. But I found a way I like even better, which is to access the device directly and just drag over the songs I want using Windows Explorer. The Sansa apparently just indexes them on the fly when I do that, because they appear in the menus right away. (The integration with Media Player was one of the main reasons I picked the Sansa, because I think iTunes is pretty sad, and the Zune doesn't work with Media Player either.)
I can't claim the included ear buds are anything special, but that's true of most MP3 players. Maximo makes a nice set of ear phones (Maximo iM-390 In-ear Earphones 2.5MM 2FT Alloy Metal + Case) specially tuned to the Sansa E-200 series, so I recommend you take a look at them if you want some high quality audio off the Sansa. Or just wear some decent, lightweight headphones. 
This unit is now a pretty good bargain, and you can bump it to 6GB by getting a 2GM car for about $30. But if you have a lot of music, you might want to spring for the 8GB model, the E280. I've filled up my E260 already, but I carry about fifty albums on it.