ID: B000FT1XZW-R3TVE8VFOIBY1-AIH4MPQENB51M
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-TRH0715-Filled-Radiator-Heater
ReviewerID: AIH4MPQENB51M
ReviewerName: California Dreamer "CA78"
Date: February 16, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: No smell, no ticks, no leaks, great heat
Content:
I followed the advice of some other reviewers and looked for this product at Lowe's and it was on clearance for $17.99!!  I was willing to take a chance at that price.  The box had been opened, and the manual was missing, but I was able to download it off of the Internet.  I let it heat up in the garage for 2 hours before bringing it into the house, and used it for the first time in our living room, which is open to the rest of the house, and measures about 15 feet by 18 feet.  I put it in front of the fireplace (the manual and other users advised putting it where the drafts are most likely to come in), and I found I didn't need all my extra layers of clothes I usually wear even when the furnace is on (we keep it at 65 in the winter).  It is absolutely silent, and there is zero odor.  And my eyes were not all dried out from hot air blowing around that you get with other space heaters.  I have it on right now in my home office, and am cozier than I ever was with the noisy space heater this one has replaced.  We've only had it less than a week, so can't speak to energy savings, but I don't have it on the highest setting, and I'm quite toasty.  There are two switches: a medium and low.  If they're both on, you get maximum heat. There is also a dial that goes from one to 6.  Once you're at your desired temp, you turn the dial down until it clicks, and then the heater maintains that level of heat and you can turn either the low or medium switch off to save energy.  It does get very hot to touch; you can't leave your hand on it at all.  Two of the wheels got flipped under when I was moving it without my realizing it, and it fell over, hard, when I put it down, so just be careful of that.  I highly recommend this heater, and I hope you find a great price on it like I did.  Even if you don't, I would have been happy to pay the $50 with free shipping.