ID: B000I3XQNC-R2TEVDPATN8TOQ-A1QZ6XN8MDG43M
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-10-1MP-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A1QZ6XN8MDG43M
ReviewerName: Fred C. Baird
Date: January 15, 2007
Helpful: 21 of 35
Rating: 3.0
Title: This camera is not for an amatuer like me!
Content:
I take a lot of pictures and have a great deal of fun doing it.  I also spend more time editing the pictures than I do taking them.  I love the outdoors and traveling.  I take my camera everywhere.  So, you can imagine how really excited I was about moving up to an SLR body camera and all the advantages that it could give me.  Unfortunately, it turned out that it took every ounce of joy out of taking pictures for me. 
 For starters, I am too stupid to get it to work well!  There is no doubt this is a fine camera.  In the hands of someone who knew what they were doing and were willing to spend the time, it will perform very well.  However, for a hack like myself, I could only get about 40% of my shot on autopilot to looked really good.  I don't know where it was focusing but even with all the help on board it only got part of it right.  There where some really outstanding pictures compared to my old camera but I couldn't tell when it was going to work.  In low light there was no hope.  There was nothing I could do to hold it still enough to get a clear shot.  I had it wedged up against a concrete building and low wall trying to take a picture of Austin's skyline at night.  I even added my tripod for more support and it still didn't work.  Which bring me to another fact of life with these cameras.  They are very expensive.  The image stabilization cost more than the camera and that is just the start!  It looked to me that I would have at least $3,000 invested into this thing to get it to do what I wanted!  That is an awful lot of money for very little return when comparing these cameras to the cheaper easier to use models.
Then there is the size of the thing.  When you add in all the goodies that go with it you have a massive bundle of stuff that is not only heavy, it is pretty large.  I can't see any real reason for all of this given the new advances photography.  I spent all my time messing with the camera and lugging stuff around instead of enjoying myself and having fun.  I called my boss for advice and he had sold his big SLR and was carrying a little subcompact.  I sent it back.
PS The service I got at Amazon was terrific.