ID: B000TKDQ5C-R18IW1L625A6H4-A1INXS0MML5ESL
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Lasko-754200-Ceramic-Adjustable-Thermostat
ReviewerID: A1INXS0MML5ESL
ReviewerName: Karen R. Van Raden "Karen"
Date: April 12, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Nice little office heater
Content:
I bought this heater because I was sick to death of complaining that I was cold at work and always sitting with a blanket over my lap or never taking my jacket off.  Now it sits under my desk about two feet from my legs and keeps me toasty warm while the so-called "heating system" in my office blows cold air on me.  I was looking for something a tiny bit quieter but the noise is acceptable - it has a sound level of a small clip fan, one of the ones that are about 8" in diameter, on the low setting and, after all, it is a fan of sorts so a certain noise-level is a given.  It is also a little quieter due to the fact that it's underneath my desk, not sitting on top of it.  Also, I've noticed that the noise kind of cuts the buzz of the lights in my office which is pretty irritating.
The controls are easy to read and clear to use.  The "power" on the left has four settings: Off, fan (w/ no heat), low heat and high heat.  The temperature setting doesn't actually control the temperature of the air that's coming out of the unit, that is a constant.  What it does is sets the thermostat inside the unit to reach a certain temperature, say 70 degrees, and then turn the unit off.  When it gets colder than 70 degrees the unit clicks back on, returns the space to that temperature and then turns off again similar to the way your home's HVAC system turns on and off to maintain temperature in your home.  If the turning on and off bugs you, just keep the thermostat on the highest setting and it should run constantly.
The face of the unit gets a little bit warm to the touch after it turns off but not so badly that it burns me to touch it immediately after (though I have my thermostat set to less than half-way to the hottest setting, like a third of the way or around there).  I tend to kick my shoes off when I'm sitting and if my feet get a little chilly I just hold them in front of the heater or about 10 seconds and I'm good to go again.
Overall, a nice product.  Does what I want it to do, does it with a little more noise than I expected but it is acceptable and I no longer have to wear a hat, gloves, scarf and thick socks to work every day. =^)