ID: B0002SP6AY-R3VQ70B2RBGEA-A2MCC9L0YDQAA6
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Hunter-Company-44360-Programmable-Thermostat
ReviewerID: A2MCC9L0YDQAA6
ReviewerName: Daniel Mullen
Date: March 15, 2007
Helpful: 24 of 24
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great value and aesthetic quality, but a WORD OF CAUTION:
Content:
After about 2 weeks use, I am very pleased with this thermostat.  It works as advertised, is easy to set up (don't know what the other reviewer was talking about...if anything about this would be difficult, it would be the way your existing wiring is set up, NOT the way this thermostat sets up. It's a totally standard installation for this type of unit), and the blue indiglo looks really nice when it comes on.  I also like how all but 3 buttons are concealed by the front swing-down lid, which gives it a cleaner, simpler look as opposed to resembling something you'd see in a cockpit.  The features are pretty much the same you'd get on comparable models, PLUS my favorite of all, the energy monitor function.  I'm sort of a geek when it comes to stats and energy use, weather, etc. and it's fun to keep track of how much time your system worked for during each day, week...it makes it easier to predict your next heating/cooling bill.  Most of the competing thermostats cost 2-3 times as much as this, and I don't like the aesthetic quality of the others as much as this one.
Now, on to this "word of caution" I mentioned in the subject line.  I almost gave this product an angry 1-star review, but I'm glad I waited it out.  I'm not sure if this was an issue with this specific product, or an issue common to all digital thermostats, but the first one I ordered had a defective thermometer.  It was reading 3 degrees F. below the actual temperature.  When I first powered the thermostat, I placed it next to the digital one I was replacing, as well as a third analog thermometer for comparison.  I put them all next to each other in several different spots in my house, and let them regulate for 10 minutes before checking.  Sure enough, every time the Hunter read 3 degrees too low, so I knew it was defective.  I called Hunter's tech support and they said I would need to return it to the place I bought it because there's no way to fix it.  At first I was peeved because since I bought it online, I would have to pack it, go to the post office and ship it...luckily I was in a good mood that day, and Amazon has a great replacement policy.  I had a new replacement the very next day, and I ran the same comparison tests.  This one was spot on with the other two.
So, the moral of the story is, make sure your thermometer is accurate!  If I hadn't noticed the discrepancy and just hooked it up and went about my business, I would be wasting money by heating my house an unnecessary amount.  That would have canceled out the whole energy-efficient point of these things - and then some.  True, I probably would have noticed "hey, it feels warmer than 68...", but maybe not.  All in all, I love this thing!