ID: B000I1ZWRW-R17PA0I2C35PQT-A3CQNSW72VKGSN
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-10-1MP-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A3CQNSW72VKGSN
ReviewerName: Spud
Date: September 19, 2006
Helpful: 54 of 56
Rating: 5.0
Title: So Far So Good
Content:
I was comparison-shopping between the Canon Rebel XTi, Nikon D80 and Sony Alpha DSLR-A100. Issues that matter most to me are ISO performance, image stabilization and dust removal capability. The best information that I was able to gather from various professional reviews before my purchase decision is as follows:
ISO performance: The XTi and D80 are pretty much on a par, but with the D80 having a slight edge in being able to push it up to 3200 (with decreased resolution at that setting though). The Sony starts to fall behind at ISO 800 with noise issues and at ISO 1600 with other image quality issues as well.
Image Stabilization: Sony has an edge in terms of cost-effectivenes because of the use of an in-camera IS system. With Canon and Nikon, you have to pay extra for lenses with IS.
Dust Removal: Canon provides both hardware and software solutions. Sony provides hardware only. Nikon provides neither.
I decided to take a chance on the XTi and bought the camera with kit lens about 10 days ago. Since then, I was snapping shots everywhere at various camera settings, testing its limits. First off, I was very impressed with the lightning quick performance of the camera. I was also stunned by the amazing picture quality that the kit lens is capable of providing, especially after so much snob from numerous professional photographers on this "cheap" lens. The most tell-tale signs are various hand-held head shots taken indoor at ISO settings of 800 and 1600 (without flash nor any additional lighting). I was able to capture all the vivid details of the skin complexion of a human face, including every little pore, hair, bum, wrinkle, and even subtle skin discoloration.
Excited over the amazing performance of this new camera, I decided to add a zoom lens to it and I bought the Canon EF 70-300 mm F/4-5.6 IS USM zoom lens five days ago. I took it to the park two days later to take pictures of our dog and her canine buddies.  It was already 6:45pm when we arrived at the park.  With Image Stabilization functions on, hand held, ISO fixed at 1600 and no flash, I snapped both still shots and light-duty action shots from a distance at various focal lengths. I was still able to get quite a number of high-quality letter-size printouts from these shots.
So far, I am very happy with the camera and the two lenses.  There are a few things I would wish for though. I wish the XTi would have a larger viewfinder (both the D80 and A100 have larger viewfinders), illuminated buttons (for night shots), and more reasonable prices on Canon's lens hoods (the lens hood for the above-mentioned zoom lens costs an outrageous $45).