ID: B00009J5VZ-R1GW2P8CYXYP21-A2B3QTNPR6EFDO
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-White-M8946LL-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A2B3QTNPR6EFDO
ReviewerName: Jeffrey Jotz "You'll know him when you find him"
Date: August 12, 2003
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: A revolutionary device - easy to use, small and cool-looking
Content:
Apple has long been considered the industry leader in technology and features in personal computing.  They were the first company to use the 3.5" floppy drive in its consumer products (and one of the first to eliminate it), as well as the mouse and the graphical user interface that has been imitated by other software manufacturers.  Since the introduction of the iMac a few years ago, Apple has been the undisputed design champ of computers and electronic devices.Both performance and style are combined quite nicely in the new iPod.  I've always heard that the thing was "about as big as a deck of cards".  Those people are wrong - it's about as big as a deck of cards if half of the deck was missing.  It's very light and sturdy - I carry it around in my pants pocket w/o any skipping, although I recommend purchasing an armband and case for the iPod if you plan to jog or do vigrous exercise while wearing it (see below).  I can't believe a 15 GB hard drive sits in the little plastic and chrome case.It works flawlessly with iTunes for Mac OSX or Windows.  The spartan instruction manual does not really give detailed instructions on how to create custom playlists and why some of my artists are listed multiple times on the iPod.  After 5 minutes visiting Apple's support site and another 15 minutes of experimenting with playlists in iTunes (hint: select every song by that artist, select "command+I" and you can edit the artist name for every entry to avoid misspellings, hidden spaces, etc).I also bought an extra power cable so I can listen to music at work (via self-powered speakers) and at home (via my stereo system) without losing battery power.  Now I bring my iPod everywhere for easy access to my 3700 songs.  The iPod has definitely cut down on my CD-listening time because it is so small and easy to use.  It is very sleek-looking and the backlight feature makes the buttons glow orange and the LCD display glow blue.  The buttons are very touch-sensitive, so Apple included a locking feature on the iPod that's similar to the ones found on portable CD players.  I found the buttons a bit TOO sensitve for my liking, but the lack of moving parts means a more reliable MP3 player.The 15GB iPod also ships with a black belt clip, a wired remote that attaches to the headphones, a 6 pin to 4 pin FireWire adapter, a power cable and a docking station so the iPod can stand upright and connect to a computer or stereo system.As I wrote above, I can't recommend use of the iPod while jogging or while exercisting vigorously, even if you purchase a third-party jogging armband.  Since it stores music on a hard drive rather than a compact flash card, the iPod is susceptible to skipping and freezing if bounced around continuously.  Mine locks up after jogging for about 20 minutes.Other than the lousy manual (Apple has a pretty decent support web site, BTW), my only other gripe is the chrome back to the iPod.  Sure, it looks totally cool and functions as a handy mirror, but shiny chrome quickly becomes smudged and smeared chrome after only one or two handlings.But those are minor complains to what is looking like the neatest and most innovative personal audio device since the original Sony Walkman.