ID: B000EPHP4U-R39CUJWV1JROAX-A2ZI4RMRSA072T
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Black-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A2ZI4RMRSA072T
ReviewerName: Cheryl Havanac
Date: July 13, 2006
Helpful: 3 of 10
Rating: 2.0
Title: Had a hard time
Content:
I got my Ipod Nano from work as a Christmas gift. I was ecstatic as I was thinking of purchasing one on my own.  Ok, now reality comes in, its taken me 6 months to get the thing working and download music. I work on computers every day for my job so I'm not computer illiterate. First, I tried to get it loaded with the Ipod disk onto my own computer at home, and it crashed my computer. I do not have the newest, faster computer out there, its a hand me down from my dad. Nor was I going to spend $1,000 to get a better computer just to work my Ipod. My computer is still dead to this day. (Thanks Apple & sorry dad!) Second, I tried to load it on my boyfriend's computer to no avail, the disk would not load onto his computer (we both do not have Apple computers perhaps that is the magic bullet).  Third, I gave it to my dad as I was ready to throw it against the wall from frustration.  My dad after hours of frustration was able to load the disk onto his computer and then was able to download songs from my CDs to the Ipod.  He also has cable internet and a bigger computer which seemed to help a lot with the downloading of music.
I am happy with the sound from the Ipod.  And once you learn how to navigate the controls for your songs its really easy and fun.  Also I like the color screen. The earbuds they provided did not fit in my ears (apparently we are not all built the same)and I had to buy some other headphones.  The battery life is NOT 14 hours, its more like 4 hours. Another complaint is that the plug that inserts into the Ipod from the earbuds does not play into both earbuds I have to pull the insert out a little in order to get music in both ears.  
All in all this has been a hellish experience and I don't think I'll be getting another Ipod.