ID: B000V5P90K-R1RRIGNOIJDWO0-A1E2G0ZDOV8A1J
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-40D-10-1MP-Digital-Body
ReviewerID: A1E2G0ZDOV8A1J
ReviewerName: Jeff W.
Date: June 27, 2008
Helpful: 20 of 24
Rating: 3.0
Title: Did my homework, bought it, then returned it.
Content:
For months I researched dSLRs and, after considering the Nikon D40, D60, and D80, had just about settled on the Rebel XSi.  Then Canon announced their rebates, bringing the 40D within reach.  I jumped on the bargain, ordered the kit with the 28-135 lens, and was delighted when it arrived.  After a week of shooting, though, my excitement faded for one main reason: inconsistent metering.  Before I go into detail, let me tell you what I really liked, even loved, about the camera.  
1.  Ergonomics.  The bigger grip (compared to the XSi) felt great in my medium-sized hands.  I especially liked the rubber texture up high on the back, where my thumb rested naturally.  At first I thought the heavier size of the 40D would bother me, but it seemed a good match for the lens--very well balanced.  The shutter button was positioned perfectly, angled slightly forward toward the front of the camera rather than directly on top.  I also liked that (unlike on Nikons), the 40D had no other buttons immediately adjacent to the shutter.  The shutter button is segregated from the others by the top control wheel.
Many experts will tell you that you should base your camera choice in large part on what feels best in your hands.  That way you'll be inclined to use it more often.  To me, the 40D felt absolutely perfect.
2.  Controls/Displays.  One thing you buy with a semi-pro dSLR is direct, one-button access to most of the camera's critical settings and adjustments.  The three buttons on top of the 40D control six key functions, depending on whether you spin the top wheel or the quick-control dial on the camera back.  This can be daunting at first, but I caught on quickly and found this infinitely preferable to navigating through multi-layered menus.  Having used Canon point-and-shoots, I was familiar with their menu scheme and found the 40D's easy and intuitive to use.  As for the top LCD display, I could take it or leave it.  Some folks love it, but my 40+ year-old eyes found the type a bit small, and I just as often turned on the main LCD to view various settings as I changed them. 
3.  Speed.  I might have actually ranked this number one.  I like to shoot kids sports, and the 6.5 fps burst rate was a huge factor in my decision to go for the 40D.  I found the autofocus to be fast, too, more so than its Nikon competition (but not noticeably faster to me than the Rebel).  The autofocus wasn't, in my experience, 100% accurate, though this may be more the fault of the lens than the camera.
It all sounds pretty good, right?  So what happened?  Based on everything I had read, I expected the pictures to be amazing.  In large part, they were good - excellent color, resolution, and contrast, though a little soft without some sharpening in post-processing - but they weren't "amazing."  My biggest complaint was that I experienced a higher-than-expected percentage of underexposed shots.  Oddly, pictures I took on an mildly overcast day with what should have been non-challenging lighting and background - kids on the sidewalk with a gray road, green grass, and neutral-colored houses across the street - were way underexposed, probably a whole stop or more.  I tried this on two different days, with a variety of ISO, shutter speeds, and aperture settings - even tried using the "Basic Modes" - and all the images were underexposed (both to my eye and by virtue of examining the histogram, which was sharply skewed to the left).  Still, if it were just a matter of the exposures being a bit darker than I preferred, I would have been content to just dial the exposure compensation up a third or two-thirds and shoot away.  But it was more complicated than that.  The evaluative metering seemed to do better with high-contrast scenes, with sunlit objects and shadows behind the people in the center of the frame.  But even there, when I took two or three shots with the same settings and roughly the same composition, two might be perfect and one might be underexposed by two-thirds or a whole stop.
I fully expect to get some flaming comments about how I just needed to get to know the camera, learn more about the various metering modes, become a better photographer, etc., etc.  Maybe so, but I guess I wanted my $[...] camera to produce more consistent results without a lot of tinkering, especially in photos of what were truly uncomplicated scenes.
Some might also say the camera was defective and I should have just exchanged it instead of returning it for a refund.  Again, maybe so.   However, there are a lot of user comments on various internet forums complaining of underexposure with the 40D.  One prominent review site (dcresource.com) recounts the reviewer's experience in two weeks of shooting: "My only photo quality complaint is that the 40D has the tendency to underexpose. I took hundreds of photos on my vacation, and the majority of them were underexposed by 1/3 or 2/3-stop."  Unfortunately, I missed all this during my initial research.
I may have had a bad copy of the camera; perhaps the lens contributed to the issues as well--who knows?  Nonetheless, the way I see it, this is a mature product, having been on the market for almost a year now.  Any quality control issues should have already been ironed out, and I just wasn't willing to take a chance on spending the money to send it back only to get another lemon.  
Based on the many glowing reviews here and elsewhere, my experience is apparently not typical.  It's a funny thing about reliability/satisfaction and repair ratings.  Even Consumer Reports ranks Canon among the best.  But to those customers in the minority who end up with defective, or simply unsatisfying, products, the odds don't mean a thing.
I'm going to try a Nikon.