ID: B0009HNH2M-R2MIY8YKS9RJ1K-A2FHQ823CWZMB0
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3590-Nozzle-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A2FHQ823CWZMB0
ReviewerName: Retired Guy "Art"
Date: March 28, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 3.0
Title: Not a powerhouse, good suction, so-so design
Content:
We bought this vacuum as a supplement to a larger, more cumbersome upright so we wouldn't have to schlep the upright up the stairs. We keep the Duros on the 2nd floor and use it there exclusively. We've been using it for around 8-10 months. Overall, you pretty much get what you pay for. A so-so vacuum that's serviceable, cleans ok, but has some serious design flaws. 
The good:
1. Good suction
2. The power nozzle that cleans bare floors as well as carpets works pretty well. Better than expected on bare floors.
3. Very maneuverable. Much better than the upright. The power nozzle has a very well-designed "knuckle" that twists and bends well. Gets under and around obstacles.
4. Has bagged, not bagless, collection. Bagless doesn't contain the dirt when you empty it.
5. Retractable cord works well. 
The no-so-good and poor
1. Poor: very short cord. Another 10 feet would not have broken the bank. We have to unplug it and replug it in to get the entire area we cover (and it's not that big). On the plus side, the cord is rubber (or a very flexible vinyl), much better than other Hoovers with stiff vinyl cords.
2. Poor: Balance. Overall, this is a very clumsy unit to carry and the power nozzle does not stand on its own. You have to lean it against something or it will fall over. The canister itself is very heavy, rolls well, but when you attach the power nozzle and wand assembly, it's totally ungainly. Very clumsy and unbalanced to carry. 
3. Poor Accessories: brush, crevice tool, etc. are really cheap junk.
4. So-so: Power switch is on the canister itself and you either have to bend over and push it or step on with your foot; either way, it's clumsy. They should have put the power switch in the handle. (The power nozzle on/off switch is in the handle; why not just add a 2nd one there?).
Overall, a serviceable machine and decent value for the $.