ID: B000BXKIE4-R8QRTJJZ0I4VV-A1S9AX0CFJCNUM
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL-7020B-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A1S9AX0CFJCNUM
ReviewerName: E. Chen "twinboys2girls"
Date: March 28, 2006
Helpful: 70 of 71
Rating: 5.0
Title: *****LOVE IT*****
Content:
After having my last two vacuums die unceremonious deaths, I decided to do a little more research in buying a vacuum than usual. I checked consumer, and epinions for reports on the latest canister vacuums. I tried out my neighbors vacuums to see if they met my needs, and ultimately decided on the Electrolux Oxygen Ultra. 
I am not sorry! This vacuum is fantastic. The bare floor attachment in larger than most making the task of vacuuming easier. However, it still manages to fit into all of my smaller areas (between toilet and tub). It is also more narrow than most I have tried. Because of this, I was able to vacuum in between my banister poles, leaving me one less job to do. 
This attachment, along with the telescoping pole, did a terrific job getting under my couches, beds, and dressers, with the exception of one of my daughter's rooms where there isn't much clearance. Furthermore, I decided to give it a go on my blinds. It did a terrific job removing the dust from the 2 1/2 slats. 
I then switched out for the motorized head and was very impressed with the power it had for carpeting. I actually found myself being pulled along by it. I used on my berber, and area rugs. It did a great job cleaning them both. Fantastically, the power head plugs right into the handle to make cleaning my stairs a breeze. It took a little getting used to, but I think it did a better job than my last vacuum with a special stairs attachment. 
The canister itself is better than others I have worked with. It moved effortlessly. I did not find it was crashing into walls or getting caught up on furniture. It was extremely quiet as well. I found the cord length to be sufficient (I have quite a large house and didn't have change outlets anymore often than with other vacuums) and the extra length on the hose made cleaning higher items easier. 
I love the controls on the handle as well. The buttons controlling the power, type of vacuuming and on/off switch were easy to use. 
I had no problems with changing out the heads. However, I have not been able to work the space saving storage option of hooking the head onto the canister body. This is not such an issue as I have the space to store it without utilizing this feature. 
Bottom line: This is a great machine. I recommend spending the money, and getting a machine that will do a great job and last.