ID: B000CSIY26-R3QAO8NW45UTXM-A3J737BB5P2E63
Category: AirConditioners
Product: Get-Organized-2961-1084-PORTABLE-CONDITIONER
ReviewerID: A3J737BB5P2E63
ReviewerName: P. Park
Date: February 7, 2008
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 1.0
Title: Terrible Product, Awful Customer Service at Haier
Content:
This unit has cost me a bundle of time and energy. When I first plugged it in and started it, I set the temperature on the unit for 72 when the room temperature was 81 during the hot summer month of June. The room temperature never went below 78 even after 4 hours of having it on in a small 10x12 bedroom. There is something seriously wrong with this unit, but when the service technican contracted by Haier arrived, he declared that there was nothing wrong with the unit after turning it on for a few seconds. The man insisted that it was functioning fine. I concluded that there was something wrong with this technician because he was so quick to jump to the conclusion that there was nothing wrong within seconds of looking at the unit, without even listening to my words. I called Haier again and they said that the service call has not yet been entered into their system so I would have to call again in a few days. Because it is so difficult to talk to a human being when you call the Haier service line, it took me another 5 months to call Haier again. You have to go through a series of voice prompts and if you miss one, you have re-dial them. It is one of the most frustrating experiences I have ever had with any customer service dept. the first time they scheduled a service appointment, no one called me or showed. I had to call them again. As I was walking to run errands, the second service technician showed up without calling me 30 mins in advance as promised by the company. This service tech said that the unit was working fine. I explained to him that the air conditioner never cools the room to its set temperature and he responded that the unit is working "fine." He did not seem to think that the fact that the unit will never cool the room to a temperature anywhere near its set temperature was a problem.