ID: B00006F2MI-R1I7UVLFO15LEQ-A3AY3RMMEPCTLT
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Grind-Brushed-Chrome
ReviewerID: A3AY3RMMEPCTLT
ReviewerName: Mark
Date: December 30, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 2.0
Title: Wow, they still make this thing?
Content:
I gave this two stars rather than just one since I used it for over 3 years until finally retiring it this Christmas.  Prior to this model, I had another Cusinart grind and brew and was hopeful that Cusinart had addressed the issues with the previous model with this one.  The most maddening problem with the previous model was it's tendency to overflow and have coffee run down your counters and into your drawers and cabinets.  After a year with this model, I was happy to see that no coffee had yet left the brewer except when I poured a cup (boy, was that about to end!).
My main reasons for buying this machine in the first place was its ability to grind the beans in the machine and the thermal carafe.  I'm the only coffee drinker in the house and I like to spread two or three cups over a morning.  With a standard coffee maker your coffee is cooked after an hour, especially with a flavored blend.  The Thermal Carafe was perfect for spreading out the coffee over the morning and having it taste great.
You need to place this coffee maker next to a sink.  It needs a thorough cleaning after at least every other brew cycle.  The steam from the brewing comes up into the grinding chamber and turns whatever coffee is left in the chamber into a paste.  I found I could get away with a second grind cycle without cleaning, but after that it's impossible to grind any beans without cleaning and drying the grinder assembly.  It's best to clean the grinder after it cools down and let it dry overnight before the next pot.  I think I did that about 3 times over 3 years.
You also need to dump the machine upside down to remove any beans that may have fallen out of the grinding chamber when filling.  If left in the little nooks and crannies of the machine, thanks to the steam, they tend to mold very quickly.
Yes, the machine does sound like a F-16 getting ready for takeoff every time it grinds.  Yes, it will wake up your entire household.  When getting up early and wanting a cup of coffee I found myself taking the machine out into the garage for the grind cycle, or even just heading to the corner store for a cup of coffee rather than waking everybody.
After about a year I started to notice coffee grinds in the coffee.  Then a few weeks later it let loose and brewed the entire pot onto the counter and into the kitchen drawers.  After cleaning up the mess the best I could figure was that the gold filter basket was getting clogged and wouldn't drain fast enough, so the coffee went up over the top and then the grounds clogged the bottom drain, forcing the coffee out the top of the brew basket.  After replacing the gold basket, everything seemed ok for the next year until the entire brew basket assembly would pop out on its own, usually in the middle of brewing.  This of course sent the entire pot of coffee back over the counters and into the drawers again.
My solution was to keep the coffee maker at the edge of the sink during the brewing process, so any overflows or popping brew basket assemblies would just send the coffee down the drain and not throughout the kitchen.
It does make a nice tasting cup of coffee, but I attribute that to the fact that in order for the machine to operate at all, you need to keep it squeaky clean.  
This turned into a "man versus machine" battle over the past year.  I was determined to get this thing to work and produce a pot of coffee where it belonged.  I finally gave up this Christmas when my family bought me a Keurig K-Cup machine.  No fuss, no muss, no moldy coffee beans, no paste in the grinder, no coffee in the silverware drawer.  Thanks everybody!