ID: B0001H6DMQ-RB351Y7AS8KHZ-A1CEYW2U3PDA7T
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3755-Bagless-WindTunnel-Canister
ReviewerID: A1CEYW2U3PDA7T
ReviewerName: P. A. Danielson "General All-A-Round Good Guy"
Date: April 29, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Canister Vac - Awesome on Wood/Tile Floors
Content:
I bought this canister vac as a replacement for one I bought nearly two years ago also on [...].  That one was a General Electric canister vac (bagged) that finally gave out because the electric hose somehow got damaged and the motorized head would no longer worked.  However, the GE canister vac was no longer made for, nor sold at Wal-Mart.  It came with a 2-year replacement warranty, so after taking it in to my local Wal-Mart and arguing for a few minutes with the clerk, and then her returns department manager, and then the store manager, they finally agreed to credit the full purchase price back onto my visa card.
I got this new vac after doing quite a bit of reviewing reviews on a number of product review websites.  It got rave reviews by most folks.  I have had it now for about two months, and am REALLY happy with it.  The suction is fantastic.  I use it in my 2-bedroom (plus kitchen, bath, and living room) apartment.  I have all wood floors except for tile in the kitchen and bathroom.  There are throw rugs in the kitchen and bathroom and in front of both doors to the outside.  I have 5x8 rugs in the living room and bedroom.  The vacuum works great on the wood floors.  That is probably its strong point.  It picks up a LOT more dirt and hair (I have two cats) than the older canister vac did, and I am just amazed at the difference in this respect.
It also does great on the carpets, but sometimes the auto-height-adjustment feature in the motorized head unit takes a couple passes on the rug before it adjusts correctly.  This just means it is harder to push the head unit for those couple strokes.
The negatives as I see them are:
*	As was common in other reviews, it is annoying that the dust cup/reservoir is so small.  I only have 4 rooms to vacuum and it fills up even in this small a place if I vacuum once a week.  If I vacuum twice a week it does OK and I am able to finish the whole place before emptying the reservoir.  It's not THAT much of a nuisance, but it is there.
*	The motorized head (actually the steel upright tube that connects to the head) does not do a very good job of standing by itself...nor conversely of lying down.  There is no "positive lock" at this joint.  It's just like some kind of friction point that is supposed to keep it "locked" in the up position.  The old GE vac had a positive-locking switch on the back of the head unit that you stepped on to release the head/handle so you could get under the couch and stuff.  This one I can see wearing out and constantly falling in the not-so-distant future.
I like the power of the beater brush, and as I mentioned before, the suction is outstanding!  On full power it tends to pull up the throw rugs and try to eat them, but to some degree all motorized heads tend to do that.  I turn down the suction a little and if tend to step on the ends of the throw rugs anyway so they don't get caught up in the beater brush.  I like the cord-retractor feature and the carry handle on the body of the canister is also pretty handy.  
I bought an extra HEPA output filter and an extra in-dustbin filter so that when I wash the ones that are in the vacuum, I can replace them with the extra set...that way it doesn't matter if it takes a day or two for the washed filters to dry.  All-in-all I think it is a great machine!