ID: B0000SWABO-R3QF3SVIS8FCOV-A7KPBFXEOEUV1
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL6984A-Harmony-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A7KPBFXEOEUV1
ReviewerName: William &#34;Bill&#34; Cody
Date: September 10, 2008
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Oh My God, this is so good!!!
Content:
Upright vacuums are among the US design peculiarities we europeans will never be able to understand (others include sliding windows in cold regions, ungrounded extension cords and the like). 
Upright vacuums are heavy, bulky, cannot go under furniture, nor on the ceiling corners, in one word: stupid. Add to that the two options you have if you really want to buy one: either spend &lt;$100 on a &lt;100W one that will not do the job (ours was a disaster, I would have to pick stuff by hand on the floor after going over it 10 times with the upright). Or spend ~$400 on a "powerful" upright to get a rocket science head that makes a 1000 rotations per minute and can compute 100 decimals of pi but make the damn thing even heavier and unpractical. Stay away!!!
Do yourself a favor, spend a few more bucks and buy a canister vacuum (not a bagless one, another stupid design probably invented by a guy that never vacuums himself :-). The deal on this one is quite good: $220 instead of $400, if it ever was sold at that price.
Oh, I forgot I am actually supposed to review the thing, well, here is a few things:
- It is powerful: about 1100W, actually so powerful it is sometimes difficult to move the head over a rug when running at full blast (but you can reduce the power to make it go)!
- It is very quiet: our 1 year old daughter can sleep while I'm vacuuming in the next room.
- The head can go almost everywhere, for instance a couple feet under a sofa, and you can remove the head to replace it with a smaller thing to get those spider webs on the corner of the ceiling (try to do that with your hoover shmoover).
- the canister itself has the right size, i.e. it accomodates a sufficiently large bag without using  much space when not in use.
Retrospectively, I cannot forgive myself for having bought an upright and kept using it for so long (3 years, I should get a medal). Now I actually look forward to my next vacuum session. Need I say more?