ID: B00008UI0R-R2LLCZ8VVN3907-ASXBMX2UTJ263
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: ASXBMX2UTJ263
ReviewerName: P. Benda
Date: March 10, 2008
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 1.0
Title: Poorly designed & not built to last long - you will be disappointed
Content:
Wow, was I misled. I am really surprised at how many positive reviews there are for this vacuum, and that is why I bought it. I only have two area rugs in my house, this is why I chose a canister. After 3 months of light use I cannot vacuum my area rugs, and my hard floors are difficult to vacuum because the floor attachment cannot stay on the pole. 
Admittedly it has good suction, is lightweight and has a great little suction-powered turbine brush for furniture & stairs, but that is about all there is good I can say about it.
After such a short time it's clear that this is a lemon from both design and performance standards - it has way too many major flaws to justify purchasing it. Just read only the negative reviews on this one before you   buy it, trust me. Here's what I have to add to its list of complaints:
(1) The "powered nozzle" (floor carpet attachment) drive belt constantly pops off! I see a lot of complaints about this from other users. Did the designers ever use this thing on a carpet? I've only used this attachment about 5 times before the belt started popping off, now it happens every time I use it. This is a brand new belt on a brand new attachment!
Now, get this: you have to remove SIX screws and TWO covers before you can get at the belt. What kind of goofy design is that? My 25-year old Kenmore canister has a simple access door you pop open to get at the belt, no screws! And the Kenmore's belt never pops off, it just breaks...about once every 5 years. You clowns at Hoover must've been really sure of your belt's performance to lock it behind six fasteners! The belt guard (what little there is) is very flimsy plastic, I cannot see it ever holding the belt on the motor shaft.
(2) Also, this cheap short-lived carpet head has no height adjustment. The brushing action seems too powerful for any carpet over 1/64" high. This lack probably contributes to making the drive belt popping off.
(3) The "ergonomic" control handle (somewhat inspired by HR Giger) may be admittedly a bit ergonomic, but it is ultimately too large and heavy (falls over if not constantly held in hand) and the button layout could be better. You will have frequent unwanted button presses due to poor placement. Then, find the reviews about what happens when this fancy handle breaks...
(4) The two on-board cleaning "tools" are way too small, especially when stuck on the control handle. Fine, you can get these tiny attachments in small places, but not very far 'cause the handle's too big. They even look silly stuck on it. Next, where do you store the other two attachments? I'm not going to knit a bag for them...
(5) This next flaw really amazes me... the powered carpet head can be locked onto telescoping pole, but the flat surface brush CANNOT! Huh? You guys couldn't put a hole at the base of the brush to hold it on to the pole's stud? It falls off the pole constantly with use! How is it supposed to stay on, with duct tape? Sad...
(6) The dust cup is way too small, notably shallow. The dirt builds up in no time at all. If you have pets you will have to empty it every five minutes. (Hint: If you vacuum with another vacuum before you use this one, then you don't have to empty it as frequently.) I bet Hoover did the bagless design just so we would be gullible enough to buy them (those who won't shell out more dinero for a Dyson). Bagless doesn't work in a vacuum this size very well. 
Summary: A cheap short-lived poorly-designed throwaway hunk of plastic, hundreds to be seen in a landfill near you! Essential to the American lifestyle!
Hoover needs to go back to the drawing board for this model. I'll go back to my 25-year old bagged Kenmore canister.