ID: B000FGEC94-RUP7QXJUSPKDO-A3EBW7AEURJ5QI
Category: MP3Players
Product: iriver-CXW-2G-Digital-Music-Player
ReviewerID: A3EBW7AEURJ5QI
ReviewerName: Anshuman Singh "anshuks"
Date: November 15, 2006
Helpful: 7 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Definitely the best Media Player
Content:
OK ... let me start by saying that I don't go gaga over every other decent thing.
That said, I think iriver's clix is _the_ best media player out there. I think it's the coolest one, at the same time very intuitive, very well designed, and the best form-factor. This is the only player that beats Ipods.
Here are the pro's for this player:
+ LOADS of features - plays all sorts of music files, and also supports audible content now. However, doesn't support itunes format - I'll get to that in the cons. 
+ Has a built-in FM tuner which is of extremely high quality. My Bose home theater system could not find and play certain stations that this player can pick and play very clearly. I DIG that feature because I am an avid news listener. You can also record FM .. so those NPR programs you would want to listen to again, go ahead, record them and listen. Just be carefuul not to violate copyright laws ;-)
+ The player has the BEST LCD screen size-to-player size ratio. ALL other players have dinky screens - Ipods included.
+ If you just looked at this player, you'd wonder how to control it. Turn it on, hold it, and everything becomes clear ... the "click" controls minimize the space required for controls. This is what, frankly, won me over from Ipods.
+ Wonderful support from the company. Wonderful accessories - you can actually _use_ the  headphones they put in the package, rather than having to buy better ones.
+ The company is soon soming out with a 4GB version.
OK .. now for the cons:
- OK .. iTunes are the king of content when it comes to media players. And this player cannot play m4u - the iTunes format. Maybe thee company can come up with a firmware upgrade for that sometime soon.
- Not a lot of readily-available accessories - because the iPods are the kings out there. But there are accessries available .. look them up on the web.
- Nano's are 0.25 inch thick; this is about 0.5 inch thick.
- Only available in white.
So that's it. If you aren't fixated on the "me-too" iPods, give this a try - you'll love it ..!!