ID: B000ALGM24-R507A9W0G43JG-A2KOV8XWZOZ0FQ
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Hunter-44550-7-Day-Programmable-Thermostat
ReviewerID: A2KOV8XWZOZ0FQ
ReviewerName: Juniorverse1
Date: December 1, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Works great with my Propane Forced Air Furnace
Content:
This was my first programmable thermostat.  Previously, I had an old Honeywell manual thermostat for my Propane Forced Air Furnace.  I live in a VERY cold part of the country, and recently purchased a GREAT mattress warmer (the Soft Heat Warming Mattress Pad found here and here), and it was so comfortable that I realized I could easily drop the temperature in my house by 7 degrees overnight to save some money.
My old thermostat had three wires, and connecting to this new thermostat was easy.  Programming was relatively simple.  You can have the same programs (4 temperature settings per day) in the following combinations:
- Two different programs: Mon-Fri and Sat-Sun
- Three different programs: Mon-Fri and Sat and Sun
- Six different programs: M, T, W, Th, F and Sat-Sun
- Seven different programs: M, T, W, Th, F, Sat, Sun
Overriding a program and manually setting the temperature is a breeze, and the unit can either automatically return to the programmed temperature when the next timed setting is hit, or permanently put on hold until you tell it to release the hold.
I also like the Energy Usage monitor, so you can see how many minutes/hours your energy is being used today, yesterday, this week, last week, and since system start.  Although not knowing what the average temperature was outside during those time periods, monitoring how long your heating/cooling ran doesn't really tell you much... still a cool feature nonetheless.
The LCD display's contrast is good, so you don't have to turn on the backlight unless it's REALLY dark.
There's only two things I would love to see on a possible improved version of this product down the road:
- I wish it would display the current temperature AND the SET temperature at the same time.  With this unit, you always see the current time and temperature, and have to press one of the UP/DOWN arrows for less than 1 second to see the current SET temperature.
- I wish there was a secondary battery backup as a fail safe in case you are not home for a period of time and your batteries die.  Most programmable thermostats DO NOT have this feature, and I can't understand why that is!  If you live in a particularly cold part of the country for example, and your batteries die while you are away on vacation, your heat will never click on and that could lead to frozen pipes or who knows what else.  The only way to get around this problem is to install a thermostat that is powered by electricity.  But why not just have a second set of batteries that can kick in if your primary batteries go dead?
All-in-all though, this thermostat is an excellent value for the money, and I highly recommend it!