ID: B000ALGM24-RN7PGB9ZAJ7B7-A2SW9XQ53F3MP9
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Hunter-44550-7-Day-Programmable-Thermostat
ReviewerID: A2SW9XQ53F3MP9
ReviewerName: Zbigniew Bobinski "zeebob"
Date: September 12, 2007
Helpful: 11 of 14
Rating: 5.0
Title: Outstanding product
Content:
Having old style mechanical / bi-metal temperature controlled thermostat commanding roof AC / Heater, I suffered from different response of the controller in different times of the day. At the same settings it was too hot in the late day hours, and too cold late night / early morning. I was blaming infrared radiation coming from the walls, which thermostat installed in the tight corner between bedroom and bathroom was unable to sense and interpret properly. Using reviews on Internet I decided to buy Hunter 44550. There is no point to list the great flexibility and richness of features, they can be found in tech specs. But you need to read manual to learn, that this thing can even count all the hours the A/C system was running from the last filter replacement, so can accurately tell when to install the new one !!!
What I believe might be important information to would be buyers, is the great compatibility with all old systems one can imagine, (standard roof top A/C, heat pumps, gas furnaces only, electric furnaces only) and easy step by step brilliantly guided installation. Manual lists all possible wire labeling used by different makers, so figuring up which wire goes where - was done in less then two minutes. They even give you a self sticking labels to label the wires before disconnecting them from old thermostat, so messing up the wires is just impossible. They advise in manual, to cut the power to the A/C - thermostat system for the time of replacement. Of course it's a good idea when dealing with all electrical installations. 
Working at night however, I needed a comfort of good light in the house. Because I couldn't find the separate switch for A/C, I chose to keep wires alive. I just turned the mode switch on old thermostat (COOL/OFF/HEAT) to OFF and fan to AUTO before starting disconnecting wires. I covered the bare ends of each wire with masking tape (electrical tape can also be used) just after separation from old terminal. Maximum 24 Volts they use - is safe for humans for handling, but erratic random contacts between wires can damage the A/C, this is why I was slow and deliberate when separating them and insulating. Read manual before you start. Read repeatedly during installation. It takes a while before you get the idea how it works. Is easy to use once you are familiar. The part of attached to the wall part is only wire terminal, so no problem with assembling this, is not connected to anything yet. After inserting 2 AA alkalines, the programmable unit comes to life, and can be set up without being connected to the wall. Turn to "OFF" the new thermostat before connecting to the wall terminal (just in case, to prevent spikes while connecting, especially when wires were left live). Of course mine worked on first time I connected it to the wall. I have this thing less than 24 hours. Last night found that at 5:00am was a bit too cold. Corrected the night program up two deg C (it can be in C or F - my wife prefers C), and went back to bed. Yes, this was just right. I have an intention to write follow-up in a coupe of months.