ID: B000VDQ38E-R3NJV4VG2ES596-A2TRG58KV1OPRF
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A2TRG58KV1OPRF
ReviewerName: Tatiana Stefan "Tatiana Stefan"
Date: February 15, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Amazing!!!
Content:
I used this vacuum cleaner for the first yesterday and it was truly impressive. My husband had a hoover for millions of years and it started smelling funky whenever we turned it on so it was time for a new one. My husband has one cat that super sheds a lot and cat hairs ARE everywhere. So I was specifically looking for a vacuum cleaner aimed at pet hair. There were a lot of reviews for the Dyson but $300+ was a bit too much for me! I read all the reviews for the Bissell and the consensus I got was that almost everyone was happy - that it was powerful, definitely got the hairs, a little heavy and the assembly instructions was a joke, and it was so-so on hardwood floors. 
To address the powerful nature, yes it was truly powerful. I was SHOCKED AND DISGUSTED when we only did a bit of the carpet and so much yucky gray stuff got sucked in! This was the first time I used it so I kinda knew there would be a lot of dirt. Needless to say we had to empty the canister 3 or 4 times. You definitely saw the dirt swirling in the cyclonic thing. Oh yes, we also had some gray sandy stuff - which is weird because just like a previous reviewer said we don't really step on the carpet with our shoes. It was cool (and disgusting) to see how dirty my carpet was. I'm hoping after this initial cleaning I won't have to empty out the canister much.
Heavy - I assumed it was monster heavy based on some reviews. Well, it wasn't THAT heavy. I'm 4'11/106 lbs and my husband is 6'2 175+ lbs and we both thought it was fine. So sure there was a little bit of weight but I think it's the same as the other heavy duty vacuums. When we started vacuuming, it was not hard to push it forward and back. It almost was pushing itself forward actually. We used the pet hair know 2nd lowest level. 
Assembly - I actually assembled it myself and my husband a bit after 85% assembled. I anticipated the complexity of assembling and yes, the instructions were truly sucky. However, I kinda figured out everything and I think it took me 10-15 minutes to assemble. It's not that hard - not that easy either but if you look at the part names and the actual picture you'll pretty much figure it out. 
Verdict - So far so good! We only did the carpet floor and did not do the stairs yet. I'm hoping to use the attachments for the stairs. A reviewer recommended to lie the vacuum cleaner down when using the attachments since the brushes don't turn off. That's good to know. For cat owners, I would recommend this vacuum. I got it for $145 inc. taxes at best buy thanks to 10% coupon.