ID: B00006F2MI-ROJP6JYN0D3VC-AUELFRQJPGH7X
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Grind-Brushed-Chrome
ReviewerID: AUELFRQJPGH7X
ReviewerName: J. Spratt
Date: October 8, 2005
Helpful: 26 of 27
Rating: 1.0
Title: Attention Cusinart: Save your good name and stick to food processors!
Content:
We would not pass on this headache of a machine to anyone. After just six months, we have just tossed it out in the garbage. Why?
Start out with the fact that you will no longer need an alarm clock. This machine sounds like a jet engine getting ready to take off when grinding and it will wake up the whole house if you use the automatic timer. 
Then, there is the tedious - and virtually impossible - task of cleaning this machine. There are too many parts to clean, and no matter what you do, you will still have a machine that routinely "gums up" with sticky coffee residue. The flawed design causes this problem. The grinder is right above the brewer, so you are going to get steam in the grinder no matter what you do. It's unavoidable. Result - gummy coffee build up throughout the entire machine.
Heaven help you if you would like to brew another pot shortly after another. Since you have had to wash out the sticky grinder, plan on spending another five minutes attempting to dry it out before brewing your second pot..... you are trying to avoid the moisture in the grinder.... which contributes to the gummy mess.....which is unavoidable anyway. You get the picture.
We experienced all the problems others have mentioned --- the filter basket pops out in the middle of the brewing process resulting in a total mess. This same area sticks and will NOT open when you want it to open (i.e., when you push the little button on the side that is supposed to make the filter basket area pop open....)Both of these problems are due to the fact that the whole machine becomes a sticky mess. Either the basket area will not close properly, or if you do manage to get it closed, then it's stuck.
We attempted to keep this machine in clean and in working order. We washed all the parts each time, we let the parts dry before putting the pieces back, and we gave the machine a complete cleaning at least once a week, all to no avail. 
After all of this, the coffee was only "so-so" ...... it was weak even when we cut back on the water and filled the grinder as full as recommended.
We just bought a Capresso CoffeeTeam Luxe, and are optimistic. It is designed so that the grinder is completely separate from the brewing process; thus far, it seems to totally avoid the moisture problem in the grinder. It makes one-half the noise, takes one-fourth the time to clean, and using the same coffee, we got a much stronger and richer cup of coffee.
Bottom Line:  Don't buy the Cuisinart, and don't give it to your worst enemy!