ID: B0007KX4TC-R3JQ1Y869TWQFX-AVLDQY3JWB6HU
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Photo-White-M9829LL-Generation
ReviewerID: AVLDQY3JWB6HU
ReviewerName: D. Golden
Date: October 29, 2005
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 2.0
Title: Mixed feelings
Content:
When my much loved 20GB 2nd Gen iPod died, I did some research and decided to buy the 30GB Photo. I was aware that there have been reports of audio deficiencies, but I wasn't convinced that this was a wide spread issue. A major factor in my decision to make this purchase was the advertised battery life of 15 hours. When I picked up my iPod I also purchased AppleCare. 
It became immediately apparent that the battery wasn't lasting as promised. I called AppleCare and was told that in order to have the battery replaced it's charge capacity had to be diminished by at least 50% . I assumed that this applied to units that had been owned and used for awhile, not a brand new iPod. I was wrong. My iPod was returned, unrepaired and with a bunch of scratches on it's previously pristine screen. I have owned nothing other than Apple computers since 1987, and I have to say that this has been the only bad experience that I have had with their support. That's pretty good, but the fact of the matter is that this iPod is defective and Apple is unwilling to do the right thing. 
The screen is bright and clear. The sound quality is OK, but I don't know if it is as good as earlier models. The smaller physical size and weight is a major plus. I am rapidly becoming a huge fan of Podcasting, which this iPod handles very nicely.
However... I think that Apple has a whole host of quality control issues with all of their iPod color/ photo models. The 30GB Photo model has well documented serious problems with resetting, freezing, and some bizarre behavior when it comes to playing songs in correct order. From what I read, it appears that the 3rd Gen ( black and white screens ) iPods were better made. If asked, I would strongly suggest that any potential buyer do lots of homework and be very mindful of the numerous reports of hardware and software problems. And don't expect Apple's tech support to live up to it normal high standards. It looks like Apple has been overwhelmed by the huge number of repairs that the iPods have required. Their turn around time is too slow and their policy regarding acceptable operating standards is shameful. I am a serious Apple devotee, but I can't recommend that anyone buy any of the color iPods until Apple has improved their performance and reliability.