ID: B00008UI0R-R10GWJAPNGY3BW-A3L5XZA4JFF54V
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A3L5XZA4JFF54V
ReviewerName: brogrimm "Bill"
Date: June 26, 2007
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Edited - After two years down from 5 stars to 1 star!!
Content:
I had to change my review.  I wish I could drop 4 of the 5 stars off!!
I'm not one to write many reviews unless a product is outstandingly good or bad.  This one falls into the bad category.
My previous vac was a Rainbow water-basin system.  Being an electronics geek it wasn't too difficult after TEN years of running the Rainbow vac to replace the points and service the motor myself.  My wife and I sold it to a very happy customer.  We then purchased this Hoover windtunnel bagless HEPA canister vacuum.  Let's explore this further.
"Windtunnel" - Yes, this vacuum really sucks.  I mean that in a good sense.  It's no Rainbow vac but it really does pull in the dust and dirt that others (my 12-amp Bissell) missed.
"Bagless" - Okay so there's no "bag" but there is a $16 filter cup that must be replaced equally as often as a few bags working out to being equal to the cost of one filter cup.  But they say it's washable!  Well, technically speaking it is.  Does it work well after that or last as long until the next washing?  NO!  In our 1800sq/ft house and three little kids with carpet and hardwood floors we go through four filter cups a year - another $64 + shipping in filter cups.
"Canister" - a plastic bin that isn't treated to counter static making dumping the bin a messy dusty job.  
"HEPA" - Sure it has a costly round HEPA filter on the exhaust port which gets quite hot.  No, these aren't washable.  If you know anything about HEPA filtering you know these aren't to be washed.  Go ahead and try but you'll either clog it or severely hamper it's filtering capability.
Not quite two years later the vac has died.  I've never had a vacuum die after just two years of use.  What ever happened to those vacuums that ran for decades?  My mother-in-law has a Kenmore vacuum that is from 1978.  Put in a cheap bag, vacuum, empty cheap bag, buy another cheap bag.  Changing the bag is no more messy than dumping the canister on this Hoover.
$200 for a vac every two years?  Hardly a good deal.  Support from Hoover?  Not worth even the time it took to write this review.  I only gave it the stars I did because, while it was working, it worked well.  Even when it worked though it was not a good value considering the costly filter cups you had to buy every four months.
Pro = performance
Cons = costly filters, messy dust/dirt canister, poor build and reliability