ID: B0002OZXHO-R37CSZ7FU16MBJ-A2V6JA8LDH1JKI
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-White-M9282LL-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A2V6JA8LDH1JKI
ReviewerName: RPP
Date: December 7, 2004
Helpful: 26 of 28
Rating: 3.0
Title: Good, But Not For Everyone
Content:
I was shopping for a MP3 player recently, and had the opportunity to play with my cousin's 20GB iPod at some length to see how I liked it.  I had initially been planning on buying this or another Apple product, but since decided to buy a player made by a different manufacturer.
Overall, I think the iPod is a good player, although I would note some features that turned me off:
LOOKS AND DURABILITY:
I realize many people are fond of the minimalist white interface.  I'm not one of them.  While I like the minimialism of the player, I try to avoid plastic products made of white- they tend to yellow with age. While they have released those "tattoos" for the players, I think those just look cheap and gaudy, especially since they leave the corners of the iPod exposed.
The biggest red flag for me was the fact that although my cousin's player was relatively new, it was riddled with scratches.  While he's not the most careful guy in the world, it was really beat up consider the minimal amount he uses the thing, and talking to other people who have iPods confirmed that the player scratches very easily- and from personal experience, they look terrible scratched up.
THE CLICKWHEEL:
Again, I realize that most people think this is the greatest thing since sliced bread.  I disagree.  I strongly suggest anyone considering an iPod test it out first to see how they like it.  I thought the clickwheel sounded great, but after trying it found it awkward.  As a student, I spend a significant amount of time on my laptop and am used to scrolling up and down on the touchpad, which made the Creative Zen Touch a more attractive product for me.  Be sure you test this first to see if it does feel intuitive for you, rather than just going on the fact that it does sound pretty neat.
BATTERY:
Compared to the other players on the market, the iPod has one of the worst batteries around.  The Sony Walkman and Creative Zen Touch get 30 and 24 hours per charge, respectively, to the iPod's 12.  Since no company has yet to come out with an interchangeable battery for the jukebox-sized players (the Creative Labs Zen Micro is the only one I'm aware of that has this, and it's 5 GB), this can be an issue.
IN SUMMARY:
This is a good, basic player.  It's not for everyone, and if you're in the market for one I suggest that you try to put aside the huge popularity of the iPod and look harshly at the actual features that the other players on the market have, and see how they stack up.  Apple is already being outpaced by Creative Labs and Sony on the battery front, and just about any non-Apple player allows you more compatibility with download services than Apple's iTunes-only program.  But since a lot of these MP3 players are marketed on aesthetics, do go to your local store or borrow a friend's and see how the product actually feels and works.  This may be the player for you, but it's not leaps and bounds ahead of any other player, and others are ahead of it in certain areas, so practice some caution when you buy.