ID: B00005IBX9-R1YMB6DPJ3A44Y-A1H2QM033QJB6P
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1200-Central-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A1H2QM033QJB6P
ReviewerName: CoffeeBird
Date: September 27, 2005
Helpful: 8 of 11
Rating: 3.0
Title: Last Chance, Cuisinart !
Content:
The Brewstation is the third Cuisinart machine we've had in the past 6 years. We only bought it this week, but we have some experience with Cuisinart, so we have a lot to say. 
The Grind and Brew made excellent coffee and had unique features that we enjoyed. I am the only coffee drinker in our house, so the small batch setting was great and it really makes a difference in taste. Using beans improves coffee richness and body tremendously, and it was great to have it done all at once. However, the carafe lid broke within a few months of owning the machine, the system was difficult to clean, and eventually the clock and timer malfunctioned. The customer service was great and we had a new replacement quickly. The second machine was very reliable for three years, but despite careful cleaning and drying everyday, recently the grinder got stuck and could not be removed from the pot. We called Cuisinart and they said that this was a common problem, but we were beyond warranty and they don't do repairs. In the meantime, the small knob on the flavor select control broke, the carafe lid broke, and the water guide was useless. 
I would not buy another Grind and Brew, I grind the beans myself now. I researched many different coffee maker brands and am aware that the basic Braun model is rated the best, if you can live without the extra features. But we are giving Cuisinart another chance, because overall, their machines make great coffee and they offer a combination of unique features. It was difficult to find a pot that had a timer, auto shut off, a small batch setting, and a glass carafe. Many new coffee makers now have thermal carafes, and I like my coffee hotter than the thermal systems can promise. The Brewstation carafe is nice and big, and although the lid is tricky, it seems to be made of sturdy glass. You can also adjust the heat of the hotplate so your coffee doesn't burn. I like the audible signal when the coffee is done. I got the black matte metal finish and it really is striking and stylish. It also seems more durable than the stainless and definately better looking than the plastic. 
I can understand the concerns about this Brewstation, the carafe top and filter basket are sensitive and if not aligned right, the coffee could overflow through the top of the pot. This hasn't happened to us yet. Also, why on earth would they not include a water window? That seems so basic, and I almost didn't buy it because of this, but we resorted to using alternative measuring pitchers instead. I never use the pause and pour feature because I think that it changes the rest of the pot. I also don't use the water filter, because we have a filter on our tap.  
So, Cuisinart, the coffee is hot and flavorful, and the pot starts and stops on time, but the jury is still out on the reliability of your products! 
My advice to buyers out there, know the features you want and choose carefully what fits your lifestyle. Use fresh beans, a grinder and a basic pot and you should be fine.