ID: B00008UI0R-R1QKTFL3RLM4VX-A2SWIM9VIL4CHA
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A2SWIM9VIL4CHA
ReviewerName: Seth Stevens
Date: March 15, 2007
Helpful: 
Rating: 3.0
Title: All vaccums suck
Content:
I still have not found a vaccum that is really well designed. This pricey attempt has some very quirky flaws. As with most cannister vaccums I've owned, the actual cannister that trails behind is not well balanced and does not roll well. This one seems a little harder to steer than  most, it just wants to go off in another direction then where it's being pulled. The controls on the handle are another problem! While it has multi-level suction, it's position on the handle is in a spot where my finger keeps hitting it. This is quite annoying when trying to vaccum. The vaccum head is very large and not easily used in tight spaces. I think in an attempt to make it multi-functional, they have a control that allows you to turn off the beater-bar brush and use the same vaccum head for bare floors. I personally prefer a seperate attachment that has a smaller more manageable sized head for bare floors to get around rugs. While on the subject of attachments, the ones included with this model are lame pieces of plastic. They are concealed conviently on the body of the vaccum, but they are hardly useful and I don't expect them to wear well. While I do like the idea of bagless vacs, this one does not have much capacity to hold much in it's dirt cup. I have to empty it after I finish each floor of my house, and I don't live in a mansion either. The one thing about this model that really works is the suction, very powerful. In fact when the beater-bar brush is running it becomes difficult to use with full suction on carpets. This would not be such a problem if the multi-level suction button was not in a place where it was constantly being hit. They did get a lot right with this one, but for the price I expected a little more thought on it's design and quality of the attachments.