ID: B000NVXF30-R2AN7PUHI47LKA-A2T17NDPY0AYEM
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Digital-Stabilization-14-42mm-40-150mm
ReviewerID: A2T17NDPY0AYEM
ReviewerName: HandyGuyWithTools "Jeff In Milwaukee"
Date: February 4, 2008
Helpful: 27 of 28
Rating: 4.0
Title: Why I researched to death, then bought the Olympus E-510
Content:
Have you narrowed your choice down to a couple of camera yet?  It took me about 4 months to get that far.  So I'm writing this to help ease the tortoured minds that are like my own, and research to death what camera to buy.
A few things to note about the Olympus E-510.  Right out of the box, the camera is going to take better pictures than that 5 megapixil point and shoot you are thinking of advancing from.  I like RAZOR sharp pictures.  The pictures you get with this camera are modestly sharp, but I usually run my pics through PICASA or ACDSee and hit the sharpen button once or twice.   I have compared pictures from all the available cameras in this price range.  Nikon D40, D40X, Canon Xti, Pentax K10D and K100Super.  After all the research I went to buy the Pentax K10D and came home with the Olympus E-510.
When you hold the camera, use the controls, and explore all the setting options, you can't help but love the camera.  The built in Image Stabilization and live view pushed me over the edge to buy.   
Strong Points:
1) I use the live view more for tripod work with wildlife in by back yard; and frequently for setting the white balance, then shooting normally.   I really like that option.
2) When I considered the Xti and the lens I wanted, it was almost twice the price of the E-510.   I considered the Pentax K100Super, but didn't want to go back to AA battery thing again.  An option if you are on a really tight budget.  The K10D?  I found the controls, and speed it took to change them on the K10D its downfall, though a rugged camera and still a good choice if you are leaning in that direction, again I went to the store to buy this camera.
3) ISO 1600;  the camera takes good natural light pictures with ISO 800 and 1600.  A couple sample pictures were taken that way.  I'm impressed.
4) Most complaints about this camera are about focusing.  I have not experienced any "hunting" with focusing, but rather some dark conditions with little contrast will make the built in flash strobe for up to 5 seconds prior to locking and shooting.  I don't consider it a problem, but rather how my camera works.  I accept it, its rare.  I would not buy a different camera based on this.
5) Under or over exposure. This is probably my only complaint about the camera. I find myself using the exposure compensation when shooting indoor flash photos when the subject is more than 10 feet away.  I don't understand why they cant program the camera to increase the exposure compensation when the subject focused at a distance, or the lens is zoomed.  The data is collected by the camera, why don't they use it so I don't have to compensate for it?   If I forget to compensate, the pictures are never lost to quality, I just have to tweak them in Picasa or some other photo program.
6) Image Stabilization.  In the bleachers of the gym at my local school, I can turn to ISO 1600, turn on the IS, full out zoom and still get a nice shot at 1/30th.  It's the real deal.  No complaints.
7) Image quality. The details with noise filter off, the color and the sharpness are wonderful. The dynamic range is the same as the Pentax K10.  White whites and black blacks is the issue here.  I like BRIGHT and slightly over saturated pictures, which means I tend to over expose them in the photo programs.  You will notice you clip the whites out when you do this, but no worse than any other manufacturer when comparing photos all over PBASE.
8). SSWF. The dust buster in this camera works.  Didn't buy it for this, but it's a bonus.
9) I never use the scene modes.  If you are inexperienced, you may want to use these options.   I bought the camera because I loved film in the 1980's and wanted to get back to a SLR.   I like shooting with spot metering and spot focusing, by sticking it right on the center of some ones nose, then dropping down to frame my shot.   I like taking a picture across a gym filled with kids, not knowing which one is my kid, but getting a clean shot that can be cropped into what I wanted.   If this is the fun you expect to have, you will be happy.  
Sometimes a full kit package with two lenses for under 700 bucks really is a deal, and a great camera.   I would buy again.  Have fun.
Update Dec 2008: Still happy with my purchase, about a year or more out.  No problems with the camera.  Firmware upgrades are offered from time to time.  My only complaint (inherant to most digital SLR's) is the dynamic range compared to film of years past.  Whites are bleached out in outdoor pictures in sunlight or black dogs are two dark, then whites are bleached out when compensated.  The 520 has shadow compensation in camera, I suspect this helps compensate.  With newer models out, the 510 package has become an even better value.
Update March 2010: over 5000 pictures taken; still like this camera; considering the 50-200 lens for inside shooting without flash at sporting events.  A great used camera buy I would suspect at this time.