ID: B000EBA03M-R2TFMSD8CGKGS8-AB34UUSNKAT7K
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Digital-Camera-18-180mm-f3-5-f6-3
ReviewerID: AB34UUSNKAT7K
ReviewerName: Skip "Evan"
Date: January 19, 2006
Helpful: 34 of 36
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great DSLR for the Value and Performance
Content:
This camera is an extremely viable option for anyone looking for a powerful camera that is both user friendly and high quality. Anyone can utilize this camera as is proof because my girlfriend takes amazing shots of her daughter with ease and has no prior experience. I myself can have fun with the many scene modes and manual settings on this camera to have a full shooting experience. Complaints about poor images in low light are way off because I have taken shots using the night portrait setting w/ no light and the shots are stunning. Obviously poor results can be had with this camera but it would be due to improper settings as opposed to an inability of the camera. Truthfully, it's not going to be a professional camera that will shoot sports shots rapidly like more expensive cameras but it still can get the job done for the enthusiast. For those being more manual... higher ISO's do get to be a little distorted as are all cameras. Compared to the likes of the Canon Rebel XT and Nikon D50, all are excellent cameras. Where the E-500 excels is the Supersonic Wave Filter (removes dust from CCD as power up) as well as the variety of Digital specific lenses available. Digital specific lenses take advantage of DSLR's and give off the best digital image possible. 
Pro's:
Excellent Image Quality (8MP)
Superb Design (Not tiny like the XT)
Nice Large high resolution LCD (2.5")
Fast shutter speeds
RAW for superb results
Good flash for indoor shots
Takes Compact Flash and XD cards (Versatile)
Supersonic Wave Filter
Digital Specific Lenses
Value for the money
Cons:
USB 1.1 (Recommend card reader)
Small view finder
Status LCD is the main LCD (not a big deal to me)
Supplied Software less than perfect (Recommend Olympus Master)
    That is for RAW image files...
Recommended Accessories:
1GB Card at least (CF Cheaper than XD)\
Case for you camera and lenses
Free time to fully enjoy this camera and its functions
Filters can be very beneficial
XD or CF Card reader 
High quality Photo printer to enjoy your shots