ID: B0001MXU68-R2TW2N7SRXOKI8-A1L40THLGW76YB
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Melitta-MES2B-One-Single-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1L40THLGW76YB
ReviewerName: Tara Popov
Date: March 12, 2006
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Melitta VS Senseo! And the WINNER is....
Content:
After six months+ of suffering through leaks from the water reservoir, various unimpressive flavors/strengths of coffee and "over-podding" (the use of too many pods to make up for misfires or weak-brewed cups) we finally returned our Senseo machine to Target and came home with the Melitta. Sadly, the large water reservoir upgrade we had used with the Senseo is not an option with the Melitta (yet?).(Note: we actually tried two Senseo machines as our first one had a leaky disposition too). Our Melitta machine seems to handle any variety of pods and gives a much richer tasting cup of coffee including actually removing the bland affect of the Senseo pods (we had plenty left over after returning our Senseo). We've used Podhead, Folgers, Senseo, Millstone and Melitta pods in both machines and have been much happier with the Melitta machine's results for each brand although it doesn't make as pretty a cup as the Senseo machine (i.e. no "foamy-head"). An added bonus for the Melitta is the option to make various teas---all of which we enjoy, razzberry most of all. The most important benefit of our switch (next to the taste improvement of course) is no longer having to use two pods for every cup. We're very happy to be able to enjoy a single 8oz cup with a single 8g Melitta pod (I believe they are at least 8g if not slightly more) instead of using two 7g Senseo pods for the same strength of brew per cup. In effect, we've cut our cost of participating in the hippest trend in coffee since it was invented to half of what we had been paying! Yay for us and you too if you're as obsessed with pods as we are. 4 1/2 stars would probably be a more appropriate rating because we think pod-coffee still has a little ways to go but we're pretty happy with the results now. If you go for it, enjoy your new Melitta! :)