ID: B00002N8CX-R1A74UC173GOJQ-A3TQDR257GERS4
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Eureka-3670-Mighty-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A3TQDR257GERS4
ReviewerName: Beverly Duffy
Date: December 30, 2007
Helpful: 23 of 23
Rating: 4.0
Title: Mea Culpa - This One's A Keeper!
Content:
On a mission to find the perfect canister vacuum with above-floor dusting capabilities:
I swore I'd never own a Eureka vacuum cleaner ever again! I've had 3 that were miserable pieces of junk. However, the local vacuum cleaner store insisted that I examine the features before storming out of the store, so reluctantly I did. Not only was I surprised, I bought the thing, and it has replaced my less-than-a-year old Bosch because it's so much better.
I need a good canister vacuum for my hard floors AND I need it to do extensive "above the floor" vacuum dusting for table tops, lamps, blinds, upholstry etc. It needs to be strong enough to remove the fur of two German Shepherd Dogs as well as seeds & feathers from my African Gray Parrot.
The attachments that come with it are user-friendly -a crevice tool & a two-in one dusting brush / upholstry brush combo. I did purchase the better quality dusting brush as an acccessory. And, my Dyson power-head for fur removal from upholstry fits the wands perfectly. (Not so lucky with the Bosch I just gave away)
Suction is excellent. It's adjustable for vacuuming throw rugs. Wands simply pull apart -no tabs to lock together- which makes it faster when you want to add a brush. Wands are made of plastic rather than metal & I've found they attract dog fur through electrostatic energy. So, I gave them a spraying with "Static Guard" & voila - no more fur sticking to them!
This little guy maneuvers easily & is lightweight. It stores easily as well because of it's small size. Bags are small, but they hold an entire houseful of fur so I only have to change them after one cleaning. Some of the "bagless" vacs I've used required frequent emptying for the duration of household cleaning.
I didn't give this little guy 5 stars because it doesn't have an automatic cord rewind. I've been spoiled by my other vacs which had them. The cord is much longer than the one on the Bosch I just got rid of. It's long enough to enable me to do two rooms, however, it's cumbersome to wrap underneath the vacuum when done. That's the ONLY fault I have with this unit.
If you need a suction-only vacuum for hard floors with the ability to vacuum dust above them, this is the vacuum for you. It's an amazing little vac without all the expensive frills of higher priced units and does an amazing job for a tiny price tag. I think I'm going to keep this one around for a LOOOOOONG time.