ID: B00063ZVK0-R25YR4LP2U26I8-A2M9DWRPFTM4C9
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Vornado-EH1-0028-06-Digital-Vortex-Heater
ReviewerID: A2M9DWRPFTM4C9
ReviewerName: Daniel Park
Date: November 11, 2003
Helpful: 144 of 144
Rating: 5.0
Title: Don't let the 1 star reviews dissuade you...
Content:
I recently moved into a house that had an exceptional heating system except in the master bedroom (probably due to a large French door).  Didn't see the logic in heating the whole empty house just to keep one room warm, I started to look for a suitable heater.   Upon some search, Vornado DVH surfaced as a viable option.  Although pricier than other models, if it did what it claims to do (even warmth, quietness, safe to kids' touch, and good control) I thought the product would be ideal for my family needs.  While searching for the best price, I came to read the ratings by others on the Amazon site, and it was disturbing for me to see that there was a noticeable disparity among the raters (please look through the reviews and see for yourselves-5 to 1 star).  But it sounded great at least for those who had them in working condition, so I decided to give it a try, knowing that there is a chance that I might get the bad apple.  Well, I have been using the unit for a while now and I have to tell you that it is worth MORE than its weight in gold!!!   It is quite; temperature control is dead accurate; heating is impressively even throughout the room; and it really doesn't get hot at all to the touch; and even looks cool.   I have occasional circuit breaker tripping when I use hair drier in the bathroom connected to the same room, but Vornado has not tripped the circuit not even once, even though I usually have it run at 78F when I use it (basically all night).  I'm sure others' claims on defective products are valid.  But if you are unsure whether to give it a try because of those reviews like I was a few weeks ago, I strongly recommend you give this product a try.   Even if you end up with a defective product like others claim, if you can get a good one after exchange (and get something like what I got), it is worth the trouble-and believe me I'm an extremely lazy person when it comes to product exchanges...I only write this review because I wished that I had something like this to help my decision making.   Hope it helps you.