ID: B000F9Q10Y-RWXVJI1YZ93BA-ACVDL5QRCOPE1
Category: Laptops
Product: Gateway-MX6440-Notebook-Computer
ReviewerID: ACVDL5QRCOPE1
ReviewerName: D. Hamilton
Date: March 19, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 1.0
Title: They don't back up the warranty!
Content:
Got this laptop back in May of 2007. It worked fine for a while, but I noticed a little black speck on the upper left side of the screen. I didn't think much of it, until it started getting larger and larger as time went by. It became the size of a dime and started to interfering with my view. So I called Gateway, and explained what it was doing, so they told me to send it back because it was still under warranty. I sent it back and they called a few days later and left a message on my voicemail saying that it was a small crack in the LCD screen, and that they felt that it was done by me!  I told them that I don't move the laptop anywhere, and that it just sits on a small laptop table upstairs. I only used it for back up if my desk top computer goes down, or if I'm upstairs and I have to turn it on to check something real quick. They told me that the warranty didn't cover that, and I would have to pay them $500.00 if I wanted it fixed. I told them to forget it, that I could send it to a place near me that could fix it for less then half that amount. So they sent it back to me, and when I turned it on, there was nothing but a black screen! I called them to find out what they did to it, and they said that it could have possibly happened during shipping, but they were still not taking responsibility for it, and their offer still stood. I told them that when I sent it back it was at least in working order, but now it doesn't work at all!!  They told me that there was nothing they would do, and basically I was stuck with it unless I was going to pay them $500.00 to fix it. THIS IS THE LAST GATEWAY I WILL EVER BUY! I WOULDN'T ADVISE ANYONE TO BUY ONE EITHER. If you do a search on gateway warranties, you will find that there are a lot of complaints about them not backing their warranty. BEWARE!!!
If you found this review helpful, please click yes. Thanks!