ID: B0006I9WHS-R1O6YFIOT3CGZ2-A11ED8O95W2103
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Honeywell-HZ-315-Quick-Ceramic-Heater
ReviewerID: A11ED8O95W2103
ReviewerName: lighten_up_already2 "lighten_up_already2"
Date: January 4, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good for limited use in strategic places.
Content:
Note:  Since writing the review below I've returned this heater for a refund.  I noticed other small ceramic space heaters had low settings, on/off switches, and carry handles built in, and I wanted a "do over".  So there; I 'fessed up.  I can't change the star rating or I would and I'd make it lower.   
First of all, at the twenty dollar price point one should not expect to obtain the last word in space heaters.  You do get what you pay for, and what I got is exactly what I wanted for my particular use.
What I wanted was an auxilliary heater for my office which is in the lower level of a house that has the thermostat on the upper level.  Sometimes the office gets a bit of a chill before the main furnace decides it needs to turn on, so this little heater makes up for when the main isn't coming on and I'm starting to shiver downstairs.  
Now, I could just put on a sweater, but then the main furnace comes on and I'm taking off the sweater; then I'm putting it on, then taking it off, etc. all night.  Nope, I needed a cheap auxilliary space heater.
I decided I didn't want anything with bright glowy orange wire in it (that's so 20th century) so I went with a ceramic heater.  I don't need an oscillating heater (since when does a heater need to oscillate?  I need to be warm, not have hot air blown on my body), just a little extra heat when I need it.
So, I bought this heater and followed the safety instructions.  Now it sits there and turns on just for a few seconds at a time to provide that additional little amount of heat I need to even out the temperature fluctuations down here.  If it just gets me through the rest of the winter, I'll be happy (or at least not mad).  It beats going upstairs and pumping up the thermostat and heating the whole house several degrees just so I can use a little part of it.
Sure, the fan is a bit loud, but it's twenty bucks and it pumps out a lot of heat for it's size.  
Of course, I unplug it when I'm away.   I would never leave a cheap heater on it's own when I'm not around no matter how safe the manufacturer says it is.
So far so good, and so warm.  If anything changes I'll update this review.
Postscript:  I agree that the lack of a "low" setting is a design flaw.  This thing draws 12 amps (1500 watts divided by 120 volts) so you'd better be careful where you plug it in or you're going to be blowing circuit breakers.