ID: B000GTR2F6-R2GJLALRZMUZCH-A3V5CI5PR9FCS0
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Platinum-Single-Cup-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: A3V5CI5PR9FCS0
ReviewerName: Agent Seven
Date: July 25, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: It CAN Make a Great Cup of Coffee - But It Has Its Flaws
Content:
Don't believe the people telling you that this machine is only capable of making "coffee water." The Keurig can deliver a great cup of coffee. You just have to know what you're doing.
My work had the commercial version of the Keurig and kept us flush with a wide variety of K-cups, so I felt I understood well what I was getting into when I bought this machine. I was mostly right: the B70 is capable of making an excellent cup of coffee, the only problem is that in order to do this, you end up utilizing a fairly narrow range of its available options. First, cup size has to be the second smallest, producing a European sized cup of coffee. Second, you have to be using a decent bold blend: my personal favorite is Emeril's Big Easy Bold - if you get a weak cup of coffee using this stuff, then there really is something wrong with your machine. In this regard, the B70 is right in line with its commercial siblings, which don't allow you to select your cup size and - sure enough - they brew small cups.
However, that is just when using K-cups. The available filter basket is a whole 'nother ball of wax. If you use the filter basket, and buy a great strong, superfine blend (my personal favorite: Seattle's Best "Post Alley Blend") you can get an excellent cup of coffee on the machine's BIGGEST cup setting. No kidding. I agree with other reviewers that the filter basket probably ought to be included, but I imagine there is a profit motive for Keurig to get you to use K-cups. I don't anymore - I prefer the bigger cups I can make with the filter.
So really, the machine can't be faulted for not being able to deliver a great cup of coffee - it just requires some tinkering and thought. I give the unit a 4-star rating because of the other things I've experienced - the "slightly flawed" bit in the title of this review. I use nothing but RO filtered water in my unit, and yet 6-months in, it's asking me to descale it and is struggling to make a half a cup of coffee. The de-scaling process requires an entire day essentially, so I've been putting it off, and running the brew process twice to get my full cup of coffee. I'm sure this is a bad idea, and I will be de-scaling soon, but I just don't think I ought to have to so soon. Also, the unit's "operating system" - such as it is - is not quite ready for prime time. It will frequently get "stuck" in brew modes that it won't let you out of, and you end up having to unplug it to "reboot" the system. I think that all these problems might ultimately have engineering solutions in later versions of the machine.
All that said, I couldn't live without mine. What with the price dropping to $159, I personally think this unit is more attractive than ever. If I had one last wish for my Keurig,  it's that its water reservoir would be about twice as big. The B70 has the biggest reservoir of the home models, and I still end up having to fill it every day.
--
Edit After De-scale - Turns out, the unit didn't need to be de-scaled after all. After de-scaling properly, it was still performing poorly. It was the filter basket... too gunked up with coffee residue. After procuring a new basket, BAM - everything works flawlessly. So, FYI, if you use the filter basket, you need to replace it every 6 months or so.