ID: B00006F2MI-R19UJDBDQ4V4BY-A2JAZO3ORF128
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Grind-Brushed-Chrome
ReviewerID: A2JAZO3ORF128
ReviewerName: Scott Hamilton "Stay-at-home dad"
Date: June 15, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 2.0
Title: Fool me once, shame on you. Fool me 100 times, shame on you-know-who...
Content:
That's it, I've had it. After my Thermal Grind and Brew overflowed this morning--spilling coffee all over my tile counter (where my grout is permanently stained), my floor (where the carpet has similar stains), and even up into my walls, where the coffee has seeped during particularly bad spills--I decided I'd had enough. But then, I've said the same thing countless times before, and like an idiot, I keep coming back for some reason.
My wife and I have had this unit since shortly after it was released. Immediately, I loved it many good qualities which others have pointed out--convenience of the grinder, taste of freshly-ground beans, the timer, etc. But I quickly tired of washing the numerous pieces, which often don't come clean even in my high-end Kitchen Aid dishwasher. And the carafe that spills if you pour too fast--and only sort of keeps the coffee warm, even if you preheat it Etc.
But none of that could compare to the overflow problem. The first time it happened, I was in shock--and that was when I had granite counters and a linoleum floor, both of which cleaned easily enough. But as this became routine and a bit of online research revealed this was a common problem, I debated tossing my almost-brand-new and (at the time) $150+ coffee maker. And then it died.
Hoping I'd just received a dud, I was only too happy to return it to Cuisinart for a new one. But no, the new one had all the old one's problems, and the basket mechanism seemed even flimsier than the old one, meaning it popped open even more frequently.
Over time, I developed a routine of cleaning the coffee maker--and particularly the basket mechanism--meticulously and frequently. I found that a brush cleaned the grinds out of the workings best, and between that, daily wiping with a damp dishrag inside and out, shaking it VERY hard over the sink, and occasionally even running water through the thing's guts, I reduced the frequency of the overflows. But "reduced" is a relative term.
At times, I've considered putting Velcro on the basket housing to keep it in place. But even then, if it pops out just a bit, that's enough to let coffee come flowing out, so I didn't bother. I made a game out of "What would make this coffee maker work properly?" But I've never come up with an answer.
So, I've settled into a routine of watching the grinding process and making sure the brewing has begun before walking away--and so much for the convenience of the timer, eh? And that's what I did today. I don't know why, but even though I'd cleaned it thoroughly two days ago, I just had a feeling it was due to burn me. And that's just what it did, minutes after I walked away.
Mercifully, this time something like 80% of the grinds flowed out, and this time they didn't go into the carafe--meaning most of the coffee continued flowing into it. But the downside was that the thick glop of the grinds went everywhere, flowing like mud in an overflowing river. Luckily, my wife caught the mess in its relatively early stages. Other times, we've found the coffee literally five or six feet from the maker by the time we've figured out there was a problem.
Don't believe the people who try to downplay this problem. I three other people who own this unit, and ALL of them have the same dilemma--underutilizing or even tossing an underperforming, pricey coffee maker, or continuing to use it at risk to their counters, floors, and walls. But not me. Like I said, I'm done. This is, by conservative estimate, probably the twentieth time it's overflowed, so I took it straight out to my back patio, in a hurry to clean up the mess. And I plan to deposit the DGB-600BC in the trash can later today.
At least I think I do. I've let this thing abuse me so many times before, only time will tell whether I really wise up or fall for it yet again. But if you don't already own one, you're lucky, because you can turn your back and say no, like I wish I had long ago...