ID: B00030890U-REX5GKP4VXHG7-A1XOMWSNSFGN62
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Hamilton-Beach-Eclectrics-40117-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1XOMWSNSFGN62
ReviewerName: T. Costales "Java Man"
Date: May 2, 2005
Helpful: 32 of 32
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great Old Style...Not so New Functionality
Content:
The style and durability of this coffemaker meets the expectations of this retro-coffeemaker.  Remember that it is mostly all-metal and you can tell when you lift it out of the same-color-as-the-coffeemaker box.  I was not disappointed with its durability, color and style.  I enjoy keeping abreast of the different style of makers that come out and this has not disappointed me yet. The metal housing is extremely well made and nice looking.
However, there are things that I will be watching out for and you should also.  The plastic top of the carafe may be the type where it discolors from coffee drippings remaining on it after the brew process.  I will be rinsing this off each day to slow or prevent this discoloration -- it has not happened yet.  I bought the apple color...the bannana color may show this more.
There is a rubber gasket that prevents brew drippings from splashing out and this may wear out over time.
The claim on the no-scorch hot plate.  Well, this is where Hamilton Beach may be behind the times as most coffee makers have this now.  The hot plate is in fact pretty hot, so don't misinterpret this.  But it is as you expect...easy to wipe clean like most coffee makers today.  An advertising boasting probably.
Hamilton Beach has "American-ized" the cup markings.  Each cup marking is actually two demitasse cups instead of the common Braun and Krups one demitasse quantity.  So expect a close to full "cups" of coffee.  I actually like this.
In terms of speed, I did not witness any faster brewing as it claims in the advertisement, but it is not slow at all, so you won't be disappointed.  The water temperature and taste of the coffee is as you would want and expect.
The carafe top is not removable, so cleaning is only a bit challenging.  The seal for the top of the carafe works o.k., but water does collect in the seam a bit.  But again, rinsing this daily will prevent any problems of staining.
All in all, if you maintain this unit, by wiping/rinsing it down daily, it looks like it will hold up and keep its excellent look and functionality for a long time and I recommend it if you are interested in this new retro look.