ID: B00006F2MH-R3MUICKGPEHXKV-
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB500BK-Grind-Brew-Black
ReviewerID: 
ReviewerName: 
Date: May 10, 2004
Helpful: 10 of 12
Rating: 1.0
Title: One of the worst things I have ever purchased
Content:
What an awful machine. I can even take the ROAR it makes when grinding, but it IS too loud to use on mornings when guests are still sleeping. The coffee that it brews tastes good.  BUT, it is the most terribly designed machine I have ever used.  Trying to clean it is not only time consuming and difficult, but actually impossible. My coffeemaker is white so unfortunately all the drips and discoloration are extremely visible. The unit is tall and the only way I know how much water to put in is by using the empty carafe to measure it.  The markings indicating the water level in the unit are very hard to read and you need to be tall to look down into it from the top.  After brewing the coffee, the messy cleanup starts.  The steam from the brewing process gets everywhere inside the machine.  So any surface that has even a smidgen of coffee grounds clinging to it turns a brown, gloppy mess when the steam hits it.  The grinder has 2 parts and they are just coated with brown glunk. The residue cannot be rinsed off, it clings to the surface. I use soap and water to wash the parts, but then as I dry them I am still amazed to see all the brown mess that is on the kitchen towel. The basket also has 2 parts that get covered with brown goo.  When the coffee carafe is removed to pour coffee, brown colored streams of water can be seen dripping down the back of the coffeemaker heading toward the hot plate.  The residue of coffeegrounds that remain between the grinder and coffeebasket turn into tiny brown rivers and ooze and drip all over. There is a button that is pushed to release the coffee basket.  There is a rather complex set of plastic parts that allow the basket to spring out. This apparatus has several sliding plastic parts with nooks and crannies that are just covered with brown colored coffee ground residue. I have tried q tips, toothpicks, toothbrushes and anything I could think of to try to get the brown crud out of these tiny, impossible to reach places.  No way, Jose.  I literally am unable to get to most of these parts clean. Now after several months of use, I find that the accumulated crud is making the mechanism all sticky and when I push the button to release the basket, it won't come out. I have to pull and wiggle it to get it out far enough to empty the used grounds and put in a new filter.  This is the only grind and brew coffeemaker that I have owned.  The idea sounded great and saving the step of separate grinding appeared to be a time saver.  But the difficult, time consuming, frustrating cleaning negates any pluses the machine might have.  It was a gift that I had asked for and I am hestiant to throw it out, but my resolve is shrinking each day I deal with this monster.