ID: B0009GUDVQ-RY9LJ3W3IHTH8-A4KDS7D02IGSJ
Category: MP3Players
Product: Sony-NW-HD5-Network-Walkman-Digital
ReviewerID: A4KDS7D02IGSJ
ReviewerName: Matthew A. Knudson
Date: July 28, 2005
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best out there
Content:
Lets see... Pay 299 for and IPOD or pay 299 for HD5 thats smaller, sounds better, and more unique than other mainstream players.
The only issues I have ever encountered with this device deal mostly with the Sonic Stage Software.
Its a little slow and tempermental, but even on my 4 year old piece of crap laptop, it still gets the job done. You just have to treat it like a woman going through that special... well never mind... It works best when nothing else on the computer is running, and you leave it alone while it is working on something. For Example... when it is transfering music from a CD, do not go into the library and mess around. If it does stall, heres a hint. Dont start clicking all the buttons at the top because it will just cause the thing to stall even more, just calmly get up and see if it will work its self out. Also, i was a little irked about transfering. I used a mini-disc player for years, and i just wanted to transfer that music into my library, and then onto the HD5. Well because of privacy in the software, you can't transfer the music unless you already have that music in the library... BIG HELP... Once sony fixes this problem, their MP3 players will kick apple out of the top...
For those that complain about the lack of media support, The Atrac compression is WORLDS better than anything else out there. If your an audiophile, try the 256 atracPLUS. Hands down, that sounds better than CD's, WAV, or anything else you  claim is better.Yes, it is a little irksome that it doesn't support copyrighted media, but most other players only support one copyright media. And a hint, there are ways to get around that.
well anyway. The Player itself is amazing, and increadibly easy to use so...
If you are in to mainstream, having to have everything that everyone else has, even if it has worse sound quality, go for the IPOD.
If you want a better product overall (yes, except for sonic stage) get this, and you will be pleasantly suprised.