ID: B000A7QH64-R3VIE76OZZFUF2-A19OLHTLJMCZ42
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Shark-15-2e6V-Cordless-Hand-SV736k
ReviewerID: A19OLHTLJMCZ42
ReviewerName: Lauren "Busy Mom"
Date: October 31, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 1.0
Title: Didn't Pass the Test
Content:
Our very reliable hand held vacuum finally, after years of heavy use, needed to be replaced.  I carefully combed the reviews and this one was so highly-rated, it was the one I bought.  Unfortunately, it has turned out to be a waste of money.  Though it picks up debris ok, and despite charging exactly per the instructions, it doesn't hold a charge very long, and isn't nearly as strong as it sounds.  I have to go over and over areas until the debris is picked up, and even then it doesn't get it all.  It is no where near as thorough as I'd hoped, and doesn't come close to my previous Black & Decker.  In addition, it doesn't come with a charging station, which can be really, really convenient....so there it sits on the floor, or on the nearest surface while charging, just waiting to be kicked or knocked over, since it doesn't really sit in a stable way.  The charging station for our old vacuum mounted to the wall over a plug, and would be on a constant charge, and always had such a nice home.  The fact this has no charging station has proven to be a huge inconvenience.  I think, however, the thing that drives me the most crazy is how disgusting it is to clean out the vacuum itself once it gets full of dirt, dust, and debris.  It is vacuuming who knows what kind of muck, and in order to empty it, you have to physically put your hands inside the unit to pull out the filthy filter so that you can then pour out the dirt into the trash.  But Heaven forbid if you have vacuumed up something like dog hair, which then clogs the intake, which by the way is curved for some strange reason, so that pet hair and other larger debris will get so jammed in there, that you have to physically pull it out with your fingers.  Gross.  Again, comparing it to my previous vacuum, all you had to do was open it and dump.  You didn't have to touch the dirt at all.  If I wanted to pick up the dirt and pet hair with my hands, I wouldn't need a vacuum!  I am considering this purchase a complete waste of money, and will most likely be replacing it soon with something that actually works.