ID: B00023XKKC-R149H6RL38I0HV-A2WYAM369B2IM0
Category: AirConditioners
Product: Soleus-Air-MAC-10-Portable-Dehumidifier
ReviewerID: A2WYAM369B2IM0
ReviewerName: Laura_in_Chicago
Date: August 7, 2007
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 2.0
Title: Not for high-humidity climates!!
Content:
Earlier this year we purchased the LX-120 Evaporative Mobile Air Conditioner w/Dual Exhaust Ducts for our basement bedroom. Our windows are too small to accommodate a standard window air unit, and the basement can gets very hot and humid in the summer months.
We were very happy with the performance of the unit until a few weeks ago. According to the product description and the user manual the "evaporative technology means there's no water bucket to empty." Apparently no one tested this product in a hot and humid climate, where one might actually need an air conditioner with dehumifiying capabilities.
It's so wonderful that there is no water bucket to empty. But would someone mind telling me why, then, there is a water-full indicator light? Furthermore, why does the water tank, even when emptied at 9 p.m. fill up and necessitate emptying, lest the unit stop working, every night between 1:30 and 3:30am? I would be very interested to know how this feature was programmed. Is this on a timer? This is especially amazing because our use of a separate dehumidifier unit in the same room, does not affect the timing or reliability of this process. Truly an amazing feat of engineering.
Even though we're not supposed to have to empty the water tank, I would also like to thank your thoughtful engineers for providing a convenient vent plug for this task. I can't imagine a better placement of this 1/2 inch diameter and 1 inch long inflexible port than less than 1 inch above the floor in a recessed area in the back of the unit, making gravity completely useless. This design feature makes emptying the water tank, that we're not supposed to have to empty, an exciting challenge - especially at 2:30am. And the heavy duty casters that allow the unit to roll easily? Genius! This ensures that we are unable to place the unit on a raised surface above the floor to help drain the water.
I would also like to say thank you for not including with the unit, any instructions, recommendations, or accessories that we might use to empty said tank because one of my favorite activities is strolling the aisles of the hardware stores looking for viable alternatives that I can construct on my own. I can't think of a better use for my time. The only way we can empty the water tank is with a cookie sheet - as this is the only object low enough to the ground that will hold any amount of water. We tried some plastic tubing to drain into a bucket, but alas, the port is so low to the ground that this is practically useless. We have also tried the low-tech procedure... open the port and let it drain onto a towel on the floor. This ruins our towels and creates extra laundry in the process - FUN!