ID: B000C524LG-R2FF8L2J7692GO-A1V0GJNI1SX8E1
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Sanyo-SC-S700P-Powerhead-Canister-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1V0GJNI1SX8E1
ReviewerName: Chris L. Jones "Dr. Vacuum"
Date: May 16, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: Best Canister Vacuum With a Power Nozzle For Under $200
Content:
We were very impressed with the cleaning ability of this vacuum cleaner, especially for a price of under $200.  If you are looking to not spend a lot on a canister vacuum, this should be one of the highest machines on your list.  
The Sanyo SC-S700P is a light weight canister, that comes with an electric power nozzle for cleaning rugs and carpets.  The machine also includes a variable speed motor control, which allows you to adjust how much suction power you want to clean with.  This is ideal when cleaning delicate oriental rugs, delicate cleaning, or even your drapes!  
With a full 12 amp motor, this machine provides plenty of suction power for cleaning even the most embedded dirt and dust.  The internal wiring of the power nozzle makes removing the hose to clean upholstery and stairs, or using the attachments a breeze! There are no wires to unplug.  
When changing from carpet to bare surface floors, you simply have to step on a switch on the power nozzle, that turns the roller brushes off.  There is no switching of attachments to go from bare floor to carpets, saving you a lot of time.
The machine however does not have the greatest quality of electrical parts.  The motor is a very loud motor, that should not be expected to last more then 5-7 years.  The filtration on the Sanyo SC-S700P is also very poor.  With no HEPA Filtration option, this machine should be avoided by any house with allergies or breathing issues.  Also the cord at only 17ft, will leave you having to unplug the vacuum, and find another plug pretty frequently.   
This machine is great if you are looking to spend under $200 for a canister vacuum with a power nozzle, there is nothing close in the same price range.  As long as you know, you will get what you pay for, and the vacuum will not last you forever, The Sanyo machine is right for you.