ID: B000CD34US-R2ET0OFNO7SY0X-A4P9PXWMKZJ49
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: American-Harvest-Pellet-Stove-Exhaust
ReviewerID: A4P9PXWMKZJ49
ReviewerName: Mark L. Shimonek
Date: January 22, 2006
Helpful: 25 of 27
Rating: 1.0
Title: Cheaper than gas but...
Content:
I bought one of these American Harvest beauties from the local farm supply store for $1280.  I have had it hooked up and running for about a month now and am thinking about selling it.  Here is what I do not like about it:
1.  Its noisy.  
Today it started to rattle.  It sounds like the fan that circulates the heated air.  
It makes frequent "bangs".  When using corn large "clinkers" form in the burn tray.  There is a bar inside the burn tray that rotates and keeps things mixed up.  These "clinkers" wedge against the rotating bar and cause the burn tray to lift up and drop back down again...Bang!  Luckily I can sleep through anything.  The wife on the other hand hasn't slept much since we got this.  :-(
2.  Requires frequent cleaning.  
The burn tray has holes drilled in.  Corn is dropped into the burn tray and gets burned.  The resulting ash is forced through the holes into the ash drawer, or that is how it is supposed to work anyway.  In actuality, the spent corn is forced out of the burn tray into the pit that surrounds it.  After a couple of days you need to shut the stove off for a couple of hours then vacuum out the pit.  You need to let it rest for a couple of hours to make sure that it is completely burned out or you will start your vacuum on fire.  I have tried using fireplace utensils to clean the pit but that doesn't work very well.  The manual that comes with the stove recommends adding chicken scrath to the burn mixture to get a more complete burn.  That doesn't seem to help mutch.  They also recommend buying low-moisture corn.  I asked the guy at the farm store what the moisture content of his corn was.  You can probably guess how well that worked out.  
The window requires frequent cleaning.  This stove comes complete with something called "fire wash" technology that is supposed to keep the window clean.  It doesn't work.
3.  Difficult to regulate tempurature.  
The stove has two controls.  One controls the heat output and the other controls the blower for the heated air.  The winter in my location is generally pretty mild so we usually run the stove somewhere between 1 and 3 (9 is the highest).  I think the stove was designed to run at a higher output than this.  This morning I was getting ready for work and noticed that it had completely burned out.  Evidently, on a setting of 1 it doesn't add corn fast enough to keep itself burning.  I relit it and bumped it up to three.  Hopefully it will still be burning when I get home.  
You also need to be careful what setting you leave the blower fan on.  Set it too low and the stove will overheat and make your house smell funny.  You really need to keep the fan set on at least 4 or 5.  Sure its loud, but at least it smells better.