ID: B0001K5GOE-R2C4KPRT24I5GN-
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dyson-DC-11-Telescope-Canister
ReviewerID: 
ReviewerName: 
Date: May 24, 2004
Helpful: 76 of 80
Rating: 3.0
Title: Good - not great!!
Content:
I was looking for a bagless canister vacuum to use mainly on my hardwood and tile floors.  I already have the Dyson Purple Animal which does a great job on carpet, but I can't get under furniture with it without using the wand and floor tool.  My first impression of the Telescope was that it was doing a good job of cleaning the areas for which I bought it.  But there were a few problems -  1) the power cord is awfully short (compared to the Animal), 2) the air driven brush on the floor tool comes on when the machine is turned on - you have to turn it off for hard floors by pushing in on a lever of sorts on the side of the tool.  The problem is that when you're doing carpet the slightest touch to this lever turns it off - such as when you bump into a piece of furniture, or even the edge of a comforter hanging from the bed.  It is very sensitive to touch and doesn't always stay out the first time you pull it out.  3) The floor tool from the Animal will not work with the Telescope.  There is an adapter to make the Turbo tool work with the telescope, but not the floor tool.  I prefer the bristle floor tool from the Animal to the floor tool which comes with the Telescope and was disappointed that it wouldn't fit.  Customer service was wonderful and they sent the adapter for the Turbo tool, which I then adapted myself to use with the floor tool. 4) The power on/off button and the power cord rewind are colored and shaped the same, just on different sides of the machine.  You have to look carefully (or memorize the locations) to avoid hitting the wrong one.  5)  Maybe it's just me, but I don't think I've ever used it and had the telescoping wand stay extended the first time.  One section always collapses and I have to extend it again.  Overall, the Dyson machines are very nice - clean well, store easily, empty easily.  The Telescope is amazingly small when in storage mode and it's easy to carry when cleaning.  While I'm not planning on returning the Telescope, if I knew then what I know now, I wouldn't purchase it.  I don't think it's worth the money being charged for it.