ID: B000VDQ38E-R2HCC31MVSPSFK-A2NEKBR07KKGHJ
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A2NEKBR07KKGHJ
ReviewerName: Walter Karma "Vacuum killer"
Date: October 29, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 2.0
Title: Don't waste your money!
Content:
I hate this vacuum. We're admittedly rough on vacuums - with 2 large dogs and 2 cats, I vacuum daily (yes, I'm a little obsessive like that). Our previous vacuum, a Dyson, only lasted 2.5 years with the abuse we dished out (in defense, before the Dyson the previous vacuums had only last 8-12 months). I was frustrated that, after plunking down ~$500 on the Dyson, it only "lived" for such a short amount of time. 
SO, after reading reviews of the Bissell, I decided to take a chance - and a calculated risk - and spend "only" $175 on the Bissell Pet Hair Eraser. BIG mistake. 
Things I don't like: 
Overall design: 
*Very top heavy (tips when you use the hose). 
*Unnecessarily complicated (a dial with 8 different height settings, and I've never been able to turn the dial to the "bare floor" setting, it doesn't move that far. A strange flip-down front feature that does nothing but collect dirt/hair/dust on it, a ridiculously small catch cannister - ummm, hello designers, this is a PET vacuum. I end up needing to empty it 3 times during a whole-house vacuum. Ridiculous!). 
Speaking of the catch cannister - this thing clogs. All the time. It's a dusty, gross mess needing to reach in to free up clogs. 
*It's loud. LOUD! (vacuums are loud, I get that - but this one is especially loud.) 
*It also runs REALLY hot, very strange. 
*We have primarily hard surfaces in our home - and the Dyson worked great on them. The Bissell, though, spits dirt out the back of the bottom of the vacuum, so as I walk behind pushing it, I can feel the constant barrage of dirt/grit hitting my bare feet as it moves over the floor. Useless on hard surfaces. 
And, my most hated feature - that darn hose. Good in theory, but if it isn't connected *just so* to it's little spout on the vacuum, it spews clouds of dust all over the house. It happens at least twice a vacuum, no matter how hard I shove the nozzle in to try and prevent it from happening. 
When the planets are aligned and all parts are just *precisely* where they need to be to function optimally, the suction on carpet is okay. Not great, but decent. Which is the darn thing's ONLY redeeming quality (and the only reason it got 2 stars instead of 1 from me). 
I was tempted to return this vacuum the week after I bought it, and I should have. Total waste of money. When this puppy goes belly up (and, given our track record, it will), I am so going back to Dyson. Expensive, sure, but a MUCH simpler, more useful design, and always had great suction. 
I don't offhand know what the working definition of "eraser" OR vacuum are, but I'm pretty sure neither entail dust and grit being spewed from every available orifice. Which is, in essence, what the Bissell does.
Heed the warning - don't waste your money on this.