ID: B000FFQ4TG-RW5L7OIX3KD0O-A2NNG5EQQYFFMT
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: NHBX-B-Contemporary-10-Cup-Coffee-Brewer
ReviewerID: A2NNG5EQQYFFMT
ReviewerName: Constance Garvey "BookStar"
Date: September 11, 2007
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 2.0
Title: The AMAZING EXPLODING coffeemaker!
Content:
We got this about six months ago because we thought that with Bunn being a service industry product it would be a more reliable machine. We chose it because it seemed simple straight forward, and not a lot to possibly go wrong. Well, were WE ever wrong! The coffeemaker does a great job of serving up hot water, often times though it doesn't do it the way I need it too. The coffee maker drips hot water into the carafe randomly, but especially right after its finished brewing, it doesn't really "Shut off" the water the way its supposed to. So while I'm trying to serve coffee there is a slow drip onto the burner.  This also depletes the reservoir, so next time you go to run a pot, it only fills up partially. which makes for some STRONG coffee....
Every few pots the coffee jets spray into the funnel so fast and heavy that the coffee doesn't absorb the water and explodes over the top of the funnel and all over the(Groundless)coffee in the pot, and the counter, and the burner, and me, standing there in clean work clothes.
The plastic plate around the spray head that holds the brew funnel has totally cracked in half now. This did not occur because of neglect or abuse on my part. It slowly over time just ran a longer and longer crack; this morning it was visibly sagging on one side (I noted as I mopped up my coffee covered counter) I called Bunn, to ask for help, and was informed that I was welcome to ship the coffee maker to them and they'd take a look at it and decide whether or not they'd fix it... How sweet of them. I asked if they were interested in paying to ship the behemoth with its manufacturers defect back to the factory, or cover my St*rbucks fees in the meantime. Surprisingly, they declined. 
I estimate shipping charges and coffee expenses while its "in the shop" to be about the same as buying a new machine.
Final words?
DON'T DO IT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!