ID: B0009JPRE6-R2LFV3L24SGQ4O-A3FIDKI2RJTY9J
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-Camera-18-70mm-Nikkor
ReviewerID: A3FIDKI2RJTY9J
ReviewerName: CXG
Date: October 7, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very nice DSLR for entry or mid-range photographer.
Content:
So I've owned my Nikon D70s now for over 2 years and it is a great camera. I use to own a Nikon D50 which I passed along to my younger sibling after purchasing the Nikon D70s body from a local photographer who upgraded to the Nikon D3 after its release. This camera was kept in pristine shape and shoots like a dream. The Nikon controls are easy to me but I am familiar with them from the D50. The D70s offers a few more controls than the D50 but the picture quality is still the same. The other difference is it uses the CF card compared to the SD card the D50 uses. So be aware of that. If you do not have CF cards, you'll need to buy more. Oh, also the D70s uses the DX lenses along with the regular Nikon lenses unlike the D40, D40x and D60 which can only use the DX lenses. So, if you have or are able to get a hold of some older Nikon Nikkor lenses, you should be good to use them on this body. 
This camera fits large in hand so if you're a bigger guy with bigger hands (or woman :-)) you will like the feel of this camera as it gives you full control of the hold. The built in pop-up flash is excellent. Manual controls are great too. You can easily switch from Manual to Automatic with the flip switch next to the lens on the front of the camera.
I've use  this camera to take many Macro and Scenic pics at different gardens around the country. I've added some sample images here. The shots by CXG are mine. As I travel, I always make an excuse to get out and shoot and this camera lets you do that with ease. Battery life is really really good. On a full charge, I can take up to just over 600 snaps before the battery just dies. Yes, 600 pictures. 
Nikon got it right with this camera. I am not a "super-pro" photographer but I have shot weddings and events with this camera and have done very well financially with the images this camera has produced. And people love the images taken with this camera. 
Please "DO NOT" worry about megapixels when it comes to DSLR or digital cameras for that matter. 6.1 is more than enough. I have blown up pictures without any noise (Noise is the grainy look in picturs) up to 30x20 and they look fabulous at the 6.1 MP setting. [...] Ken is a Nikon guy so, just be aware of that.