ID: B0007QKMSC-R1Z495MIGUEMSS-A1SMV1BN28YF6J
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-Camera
ReviewerID: A1SMV1BN28YF6J
ReviewerName: M. Takemori
Date: July 10, 2005
Helpful: 14 of 17
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very pleased
Content:
I bought this camera at B and H Photo on Wed, 7/6/05, so I've owned it for less than a week. This Canon 350D is a digital replacement for my N75. My family loves Nikon and during my search for a digital camera it was difficult passing over the Nikon D70, but only initially. The size, weight, and feel of the Rebel XT is comparable to my N75. I have small hands and found the D70/D50 and even other Canon SLRs to be too large and quite heavy. I am the sort of person who enjoys bringing my camera everywhere; toss it in a bag or backpack and go. The only real difference in weight now is very minimal, even with the battery pack.
I haven't read the manual yet. The controls are pretty intuitive and fun to play around with. Connection to my PC is pretty simple. I'm not too excited with the Zoom browser software. I'm going to kill it and remove it from my pc soon. It's just a silly interface and I really prefer the simplicity of XP's Explore browser which is sufficient.
This camera has a USB 2 connection which I don't have yet. I've taken about 200 photos the past 3 days in large format and upload time hasn't been an issue using my 1.0 USB ports. My USB 2.0 PC card will arrive soon and I am looking forward to seeing the difference in speed. I will update my review then.
I bought the body and lens kit. I thought I might be annoyed with the lens since I'm used to 28-80, but I find that it's an easy move to 18-55. As for a true critique in the quality of this particular lens, I am not qualified for I am an amateur photographer/hobbyist. (...) I hope my experience helps someone with their decision in the pursuit of purchasing a digital SLR regardless whether this is the choice or not.
----
Update 8/8/05
I had a month of shooting with this camer. I've taken over 600 shots all in large format without delay due to writing. I have a sandisk Ultra II 1Gb CF. A large percentage of these photos are images of people. There is no shutter delay; quick and responsive focusing to handle the most animated of my friends and even the family cat. I've had no problems shooting indoors in low lighting   to a brifght sunny day outdoors. One thing: indoors the flash can be excessive and I tend to turn it off or go manual.
Battery: Power is eaten up with viewfinder preview. I turn turn off that option.
USB 2.0: Nice
With all of the reviews I've read about folks manipulating their images after using their d-SLRs I was pretty apprehensive, but I've had no need to do this. Simply learn the different settings that should be used in different environments.
There continues to be complaints regarding the size of this camera being too small. Before making a purchase and finding disappointment, go to a photo/electronics store and test it out. Get a feel for the size, weight and positioning of the buttons.