ID: B000EP5MOA-R11JVTRH26SZ2F-A3U6BVN616C290
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Green-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A3U6BVN616C290
ReviewerName: mad at I pod "jgor"
Date: January 11, 2006
Helpful: 0 of 9
Rating: 1.0
Title: why I pod sucks
Content:
Last year, against my better judgment, I let my teenage daughter buy a mini-I-pod (since this is a service related complaint, it applies to all apple mp-3 players). I had advised her not to do it. I knew that the hard-drive was fragile, and the words "fragile" and "teenager" are not normally a good mix. I also didn't like the battery. But my daughter wanted to use I-tunes. Plus she thought the other models were nerdy. In order to protect us against normal teenage behavior, I paid for the extended warranty, which is 60 dollars, or about a third of the price of the I-pod. 
Our mistake. 
Technically, it is OK other than the battery issue (the battery cannot be replaced). But the service is insultingly bad, the worst service I've ever experienced from a retail company. 
We first learned of the service problems when my daughter had a sound problem that turned out to be multiple headphone failure, not Apple's fault. I tried calling the local store, but they are not accessible by phone. The phone links to a central tech support line, which on high use hours may require 30 minutes or more on hold. So we took it into the store, which has a tech support section (the "genius bar" or "Conceirge service"). But you cannot get walk-in service. To get to talk to a tech support employee you have to make an appointment on line. You cannot make an appointment in advance unless you pay 100 dollars for "Procare" service (I don't know any other retail operation that requires you to pay 100 dollars to make an appointment for service). Otherwise, appointments are available only on a same day basis, first come, first serve, assuming their server works (more on that later). In order to make an appointment after normal working hours (so you don't have to take a day off to service an I-pod), you have to wait until all the earlier appointments are full, but not wait too long or the "genius bar" will be full. I thought of just making 20 appointments and filling up the day-that might work, although it inconveniences everyone else. 
Our big problem came when my daughter's battery died after about 10 months of use. This is not a problem that can be resolved by the "genius bar". You have to call the central number for technical support, which will send you a shipping package with a DHL label (our mailing label was missing the proper return address), which you then have to deliver to the DHL mailer. 
We did this, and after over a week with no response, I called the central tech support unit. It took me 20 minutes to get a service rep. He checked the computer, then put me on hold for another five minutes. When he came back, he told me that they found a small dent in the unit, and that voided the warranty, but for 210 dollars they could send me a new machine. I asked to speak to his supervisor, which just got me another 15 minutes on hold and a lecture on how this small dent eliminated their obligation to repair the machine. I told them that we had not noticed any damage when we returned it, and it could have been damaged after shipment. I reminded them that I had purchased an extended warranty, and that if they were voiding this during the original period of the warranty, I would demand a full refund of the warranty price. Nothing dissuaded them from their position. 
We had them ship the machine back (DHL packages require a signed receipt, and had we not been home when it arrived we would have had to make a trip to DHL to pick it up). I tried to make a service appointment, but their server was down for a week (and this is a computer company?). My wife and I finally walked in and demanded to see the manager. The manager and sales rep were actually sympathetic and friendly, but the tech supervisor looked at the I-Pod (with a very small dent in the upper right hand corner), and lectured us on how that voided the warranty and they could never allow for a return. My wife and I (both of us were now furious, both at the time we had to waste on this and the 300 plus dollars we had invested in this machine, accessories and I-tunes) then had full scale tantrums, yelling and screaming until their techie, lecturing us on how to use their equipment properly and warning us that this is a once in a life-time exemption that would apply to any future purchases (I told him that was no problem--I would promise to never buy an apple product again) gave us a new mini-ipod--otherwise we would have driven every customer out of the store. 
What I don't understand is from a purely business point of view, this makes no sense. If they voided our warranty, they would have to refund our extended warranty contract (we are still in the period of the original warranty), which is 60 bucks. That is probably more than the cost to them of the item, which is now discontinued anyway. Instead, they have permanently alienated a family who already owns two I pods (we had to buy one for our younger daughter so she could use her sister's I-tunes) worth over 600 bucks w/accessories, and a household with 2 computers and 3 mp-3 players. 
I remember when Apple advertised themselves as the David fighting the IBM Goliath. Now that they have a near monopoly on a product, they are the big, unfeeling company. Their business model seems to be modeled after an elite club for those worthy of their great product. But no other retail business gives this kind of shoddy service (other than other quasi-monopolies like cable companies). There are other Mp-3 players available that you can buy from normal retail outlets, and if they die these companies will accept them back even if they have a small dent in the right hand corner. 
So why buy apple?