ID: B000G1CXZI-R2CWP7VE4OZEWP-A79WSKF7MDLJH
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-TRN0812T-Portable-Oil-Filled-Programmable
ReviewerID: A79WSKF7MDLJH
ReviewerName: mma "doublems"
Date: December 5, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 3.0
Title: The one I received defective ?
Content:
I was very much looking forward to this product and hoping it would work out for me.  I read the instruction booklet and precautions carefully, following them accordingly when I started the unit.  Unfortunately, within an hour (more or less) - the heater shut off.  I thought it simply overheated and shut off automatically as it is supposed to do upon overheating.  However, I was never able to start it up again.  I cannot say that it might not have been a great space heater had it worked properly, so I can only say I was disappointed by the malfunction or defective unit.  I returned it promptly after realizing it was defective.
I would like to add a couple of advisements regarding the instructions for use:  First, the manufacturer says to allow at least 3 FEET between the heater and any furniture, drapery, etc. (from all sides of the heater, as I recall).  (I do not think this is made clear in the general product description).  Second, due to the level of heat generated from the heater, it is instructed to NOT plug in the power cord above the unit where it might be hanging next to it.  
Had the heater worked properly, I think it would have been a nice and effective space heater, especially with the programmable timer and making sure to have enough space between the unit and any fire risks.  As another reviewer advised, it may be a little more of an inconvenience in ordering an item like this online if it turns out that it does not work (vs. buying it locally).  If I had bought the heater locally, I might have tried a replacement unit of the same heater, but did not want to do so with an online purchase in case it happened again.  I will say that Amazon handled the return properly and expediently and I am happy with their service.   I believe this may be the first item I have ordered from Amazon which was defective/malfunctioned - and I have ordered quite frequently from Amazon for several years.  Hopefully, my experience with this heater is an isolated one overall, but I feel it appropriate to write this review as an FYI for potential buyers.