ID: B000VDQ38E-RM876DUQTRDRX-A30EECG7F7WVHH
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A30EECG7F7WVHH
ReviewerName: Owen Jones
Date: November 3, 2007
Helpful: 358 of 364
Rating: 4.0
Title: Bissell Pet Hair Eraser vs. the Dyson Animal.
Content:
I purchased one of these fellas today after having just returned my Dyson. Yes, that's right, I RETURNED MY DYSON! To be honest, I am still scratching my head as to why so many people throw praise at the Dyson. I had one of their "Animal" vacuums for one day, and although it was a nice product... really, is it worth almost $500? I mean, I am talking about a LOT of money here, so why should you spend that much money on a vacuum cleaner?
The simple answer is that you don't have to. The Dyson Animal picked up just a small amount of debris from my fully-carpeted apartment when I tried it out. The Bissell Pet Hair Eraser was almost half-full after I used it earlier today, only 12 hours after having using the Dyson.
I'm not sure what to make of this, to be honest. The Bissell (which costs about 1/3 the price of the Dyson) seems to do the job much better. Although the unit is quite bulky, and requires some assembly (the instructions were a joke), I have much cleaner floors as a result. And my biggest peeve about the Dyson was that, after paying all that money for a product that was called "The Animal," I still had to pay an extra $69 for the pet hair attachment! Is it me, or is someone trying to rip me off here?  (Edit: I have been told that one of the Dyson Animal vacuums comes equipped with the aforementioned attachment).
As for the Bissell, it comes with all of the attachments that you will ever need, and did a great job on my upholstery as well as my carpets. Although the hose isn't as long as the Dyson, I was able to clean everything that I needed to clean without any setbacks.
My conclusion is this - if you believe that a Mercedes Benz is the best car out there because of its price tag, then you will probably be better off with a Dyson. However, if you just want a vacuum cleaner that does a decent job regardless of how much it costs, then go with the Bissell.
Simply put, my Bissell Pet Hair Eraser vacuum cleaner does a better job than the Dyson Animal, plus I have an extra $300 in my pocket.
Now, does that seem like a no-brainer to you?
-Update 04/04/2009-
People keep asking me how the vacuum is performing now, so I'm going to address this matter.  I'm still happy with my purchase and stand by it.  No, the Pet Hair Eraser is not perfect, which is why I gave it four stars instead of five.  However, it does a great job of cleaning my carpets, still, and I have only had to replace the belt once because of my own mistake.  Looking at the other reviews, it seems like people either love it or hate it.  My advice, if you are unsure, would be to purchase one from a nearby store so that you can return it if you are not happy.
-Update 10/12/2009-
The Bissell Pet Hair Eraser finally passed away just recently.  So, we managed to get two years out of it.  Some of you will think that is good for a $150 vacuum cleaner, whereas others will have higher expectations.  As for me, I think that we got more than our money's worth.  It performed great until just recently, when it simply stopped working the way it used to.  Let me make it clear that we vacuum a lot in our household - at least once a day - so this thing got put through its paces.  We're happy with what we got out of the Bissell, and will be buying another here soon.  Although, we may just go ahead and get the slightly cheaper Pet Eraser (model #4101) from Walmart this time.