ID: B000V5P90K-R1JG7SMNIYISBX-A35EPNREP16MY4
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-40D-10-1MP-Digital-Body
ReviewerID: A35EPNREP16MY4
ReviewerName: Inverse Outburst
Date: November 23, 2007
Helpful: 25 of 90
Rating: 2.0
Title: Good, not great.. so far.
Content:
Rather than cover all things blow-by-blow( others have already done a tremendous job ), I just wanted to comment on what seems to me, a really annoying issue with this camera.
It is really, really picky about light. That is, if conditions are not *just* so, it will refuse to open the shutter and take the picture. This is especially prevalent in lower light conditions. When I say "lower", I mean anything not brightly lit. Most normal room lighting is apparently too low.
Now, I am not an expert photographer, but I do understand the effects of aperture, shutter speed, etc. and I have tried full-auto( camera refuses to take pictures unless it is pretty much full daylight ), I have tried the various creative modes( camera refuses to take pictures unless you tweak heavily for that mode, e.g. in aperture priority mode you need to open it ALL the way and still need a lot of external light ), and lastly I have tried full manual, with the result similar to full auto. I needed either full daylight, or I had to stop up to fully opened aperture and give 1 sec shutter.
What happens is the flash pops up and it is metering away and flashing various warnings depending on what mode you are in, as to why it won't take the picture.
So, given that other reviewers don't mention these problems, I am concluding that my camera has some defect. I've used a friend's 10D and an old Epson 750EZ 3MP( circa 2000 ) and both take great pictures. I compared photos taken with the Epson from years ago, and oddly, the pictures the 40D did shoot were not much better than the Epson, excepting for resolution being higher.
I don't know what to say. I wanted a really good DSLR for myself and chose this camera because all of the good reviews here. I've been very disappointed with it and I am probably going to have to spend more money having it looked at for problems, as it does not make sense why it seems to have such a limited range for light.
Ultimately, having also used( briefly ) and seen pictures from the 10D, an original Rebel, and other cheaper cameras, I would say to save your money and buy a Rebel for half the price.
* edited *
Doh! I forgot to mention the lens used.
Canon 50mm f/1.8
Canon EF 24-105mm f/4 L
Canon 100mm f/2.8 Macro
I used all the lens I had available to me, and I realize the f/4 is fairly slow for low light. I thought the 50mm f/1.8 would suffice but no... *sigh*