ID: B000E46ITO-R305E9S125FLIZ-A3L1RFRDUDMT9N
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Breville-Espresso-Cappuccino-Maker-ESP8XL
ReviewerID: A3L1RFRDUDMT9N
ReviewerName: inframan
Date: March 16, 2008
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 1.0
Title: Worst espresso machine I've ever used...
Content:
I've owned 4 machines over a period of 30 years, starting with an old(er)-fashion piston-pump Riviera, a now expensive classic (the kind with the big lever arm you pull down) that I had completely rebuilt twice until I retired it for a Briel Lido (cheap & plain but reliable).
I had high hopes for this unit. It looks elegant in style with a metal body & clean lines & seems to operate in a straightforward way. But in actual usage it verges on the nightmarish. A previous poster has already eloquently described 2 of the ESP8XL's biggest shortcomings: its spring-loaded filter holder & its redesigned foaming wand. 
I always make multiple cups of espresso, be it for straight shots, cappucinos or lattes. Therefore I fill & use at least 2 filters every time I make espresso. I had even already purchased the extra filters from Breville before even trying the unit for the first time. Disappointment quickly turned to frustration then to anger when I discovered how difficult it was just to *fit* the filter full with grounds into the holder (force was more like it) so tight was the spring. After considerable struggling I managed to get it in & make a cup. But to remove the now-heated (& full of damp grounds) filter was a real nightmare. I wound up having to use a paring knife to pry the filter from the holder, holding it with a kitchen towel to keep from burning myself. What a mess!
I called customer support & explained my problem. The chap on the line, while friendly enough, never seemed to have used an espresso machine, to say nothing of this model, suggesting such things as taking hold of the (burning hot) filter rim at the 2 indentations (about 1/8") in the holder. When I pointed out that the image of the filter holder in the manual showed a latch release while mine had none, he said that Breville had discontinued that feature & replaced it with the spring, they just hadn't updated the manual. Great! What lunacy. What I wouldn't give for the ability to pop the filter using that latch. Sadists at work.
I received this unit as a gift several months ago so can not return it, but have solved the problem of the filter holder by prying off the spring. Now the filters go in & come out easily as they should.
I rarely use the Breville to make espresso, mostly just to foam milk for my wife who likes it in her coffee. I should add that the previous reviewer was also correct in his assessment of the foamer. It does need to be turned on initially to release stored up water in order to get well-pressured steam.
Next time back to a European espresso machine (preferably Italian-made)for me. No more falling for the blandishments of clever marketing.