ID: B0007QKMQY-R27YKFTWZEQ490-A135XB1SJWJDIW
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-f3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A135XB1SJWJDIW
ReviewerName: Stuart Hagan "shag126"
Date: March 7, 2006
Helpful: 10 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: great for amateurs
Content:
I use the camera to shoot pics of the family and anything else that interests me, but mainly for family. I have 2 very active kids, 6 and 8. I've had the camera for a few months and love it!  The biggest advantage to me is that I can fire away at the kids continuously, and dump the bad pics, which is a significant percentage!  I have caught far better pics than ever before with my previous camera.  The first set of prints I ordered online are wonderful.  For action shots this camera is perfect.  The advantage of the SLR is that you don't have the delay found in the majority of point-and-shoot cameras marketed to people like me, and the burst rate is more than an amateur like me would need.  I found that the P&S type of camera caused me to miss the good shot more frequently than getting the good shot.    
     Make sure to get a big memory Compact Flash card.  I've found good deals for 2 gig cards with rebates, which can hold 500+ pics in JPEG format, and still a few hundred even if you shoot in the RAW format.  I have not found problems with the 40X write speed.
     The battery life is very reasonable, allowing at least 250 shots before recharging in my exerience.  I also recommend shopping for extra batteries, which can be found for a very good deal for the non Canon brand.  I have not noticed any problems with the lower priced battery.
     I purchased the optional battery pack, not really for extended battery life (it holds two batteries), but because I wanted a larger grip area and the pack has extra controls and shutter button for vertical shooting, which I find to be a huge advantage. 
     The software that comes with the camera is reasonable at doing basic photo editing (red eye reduction, etc.), but those who are more into it probably would be happier getting 3rd party software for in depth editing.  
     I also bought the Lowepro 100 Slingshot pack to carry the camera.  It just fits this model with room to spare for accessories.  
     For those amateurs who are willing to spend some extra cash to get these advantages, I believe the camera is well worth it, especially if you're a family man and those kids will only be this age a short time!