ID: B000WG5EHG-R1UL2J9DVQXO9J-A3RRB041GFVA8A
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Green
ReviewerID: A3RRB041GFVA8A
ReviewerName: M. J. Bicklein "MJ"
Date: September 30, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 16
Rating: 1.0
Title: Typical Microsoft Product - Broken
Content:
I had such high hopes this would be the music player to replace my old Ipod, but I was wrong. Just like everything Microsoft sells, it broke almost immediatly. I didn't even make it one week with this Zune before it bricked.
The device looked nice and worked pretty good out of the box. I liked the sound and video. And getting used to the touch pad was easy. Downloading the Zune software wasn't to bad and it installed real easy. I actually like the Zune software, it was a nice change from the Itunes. I was able to move most of my ripped CDs over to it by copying the MP3 files. I wasn't able to figure out how to get my Itunes purchased music transferred, that was something I was going to look into. 
But, on day 3 my Zune died. The display screen turned black, the back light stayed slightly lit, and it stopped working. The support site reffers to this as frozen. I tried the online zune support, but my Zune wouldn't reset per the instructions from the support site. I called Microsoft's Zune support and they walked me through the same reset process, which still didn't work. So they suggested waiting a few days till the battery lost it's charge and see if the device would reset. Uh, ya right. That's just stupid. Maybe installing an on/off switch to physically disconnect power or a hardwired reset switch to interrupt power. The other option I had was to ship it to their repair center to have it fixed. 
Well since it needed to be shipped, it got shipped back to Amazon for a refund, I only had the Zune for 4 days. In my opinion, Microsoft needs to stick to software, at least then they can make a patch. Hardware is just not for them. Between Xbox failures and now this Zune, Microsoft just fails every time.