ID: B0007QKN22-R36OMP5T7305PL-A2F9IYCK2IHVX6
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-f3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A2F9IYCK2IHVX6
ReviewerName: N. T. Cowan "nathan_cowan"
Date: July 2, 2007
Helpful: 5 of 6
Rating: 4.0
Title: Newbie to DSLR Picks up this bad boy
Content:
I'm brand new to the SLR world and decided about a month ago I'd continue a hobby I had started in middle school.  I was torn between the XTi and the XT.  After doing much research, learning, and getting information overload, I decided for my needs, I'd pick up the XT.  From what I read, the difference in MP wouldn't be much of an issue for me.  The self cleaning on the XTi would be awesome.  It came down to an issue with money and "wife" approval.  At just under $600 with kit lens, the XT was "psychologically" a little easier to buy than the XTi.  Anyway, I'm in the tech field and began thinking of the bodies like computers.  New and better stuff will keep coming out faster and cheaper, in this hobby the lenses seem to be the real investment.  
Anyway, so far I love the camera.  I'm learning still but I do like the creative modes the XT offers.  Kind of like step learning.  I've got down all the terminology and what each thing does, but need to learn how it actually works and think the creative modes offered on XT are the perfect bridge.  
I have absolutely no complaints so far about the camera (although i did get the dreaded 99 error that I've read about, but I turned off the camera and it went away.  I hope I didn't get a dud).  
The Good:
1.  Great value in my opinion
2.  Camera feels good overall (some have complained about it being too light or feeling cheap).  I don't get this impression at all.  Although one of the cons I'm listing does have to do with the shape.
3.  Easy to use with plenty of different modes to help you along the way
The Bad:
1.  Like others have complained, the grip feels a bit compacted.  I don't have really big hands, but it feels a tad unnatural holding the camera.  Its not terrible though, but its a little annoying
2.  Not necessarily against this camera, but one thing I didn't think about is that you can't shoot with glasses on.  Too hard.  But it does have an adjustment that goes to -2.5 (right at my vision) and I can shoot with no glasses, or contacts.
3.  The kit lens leaves something to be desired.  I'm a newbie and I can already feel the limitations of this lens.  Under sunny conditions, the lens performs pretty good, no complaints.  But indoor photography sucks for lack of a better word.  Plus the range doesn't seem useful.  Its a short telephoto and maybe a long wide.  Would I buy it with the kit lens?  Yeah, for only $70 or $80 more, I think its worth it.  However, if choosing b/w the kit lens and picking up the nifty fifty (Canon 50mm prime), I might have been better off picking up the body only and getting the nifty fifty.  I'll know when I actually order the nifty fifty.  I guess I felt I wanted some range, so I went with the kit.
I am going to pick up the nifty fifty to see what this camera can really do.  I'm pumped about the hobby and so far so good.  I think I'd be even more excited if I had better glass on the cam.  But I'm still learning.  Maybe the kit lens isn't all that bad and its the photographer.  
The only bad thing about this hobby though is that initially, I thought I would be happy with the body + kit lens.  Now I want more glass, better flash, monopod, etc, etc.