ID: B000HJ4YMY-RGJNP9O44KUGN-A1UH5UHB1SKOS0
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-55mm-Zoom-Nikkor
ReviewerID: A1UH5UHB1SKOS0
ReviewerName: LiddiePF "Country Mouse"
Date: February 25, 2008
Helpful: 32 of 58
Rating: 1.0
Title: Buyer Beware!
Content:
Having worked my way through an entry level digital camera and a pretty good ZLR, I was ready for more megapixels, more features and more lenses.  After much research, I bought the Nikon D80 with the 18 t0 135mm zoom Nikkor lens, in part because I have had Nikons before and had older, manual focus lenses that I could use.  It does take wonderful pictures, and the features are amazing, giving you great control with some study and experimentation.  But as for the lens that it came with it, big trouble.  I bought the camera in August, and it's first break down was in November (yes, first).  Nikon repaired it under warranty, but they do not pay the inbound postage, which given age of this lens, only a couple of months old, I felt they should have.  Got it back, and I was happy enough, until 200 or 300 photos later, in early February, the lens broke again, same problem.  This time Nikon sent me a prepaid mailer, and they have now had my lens in the shop for several weeks.  So in the 5 month life of this lens, it has been back at Nikon for repairs for 5 weeks!  And they refuse to just give me a new lens, it is so obviously a lemon, so now I  basically have a factory reconditioned lens that I paid full price for!  I bought this as a starter lens, but I didn't expect it to actually NOT WORK!!!  I am so ready to buy other lenses for this camera, but can't quite bring myself to pay for another Nikon.  A photographer friend of mine who works for a local paper said, in looking at the lens, that they make cheap versions and slap the Nikon name on them, to offer attractive pricing on their pacakged sets.  Well, this certainly isn't the quality I expect from Nikon, nor the treatment after the purchase ... overall, the experience has been a very disappointing one, and i am  back to shooting with my ZLR.  Hope you have better luck if you decide to take the plunge with this one...