ID: B0007QKMQY-R34N0ORUU5UJCP-AYGP9JAFGWZIS
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-f3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: AYGP9JAFGWZIS
ReviewerName: Robert R. Cox
Date: August 28, 2005
Helpful: 12 of 13
Rating: 5.0
Title: It really is a good camera
Content:
Let me say at the outset that I am an amateur photographer but I decided to buy this camera as a gift to myself from last year's salary bonus after previously owning a Canon 35mm SLR and the digital Canon G2.  I wanted a camera that I could use for the next 5 years.  I also went ahead and bought the recommended telephoto lens, the external flash and a 1GB flash card.  I have been using the camera for about 1 year now and I can say that I'm reasonably satisfied with it.  I did read all the reviews about it before purchase so I was aware that it had a 'problem' with under exposed shots when the flash is used at night.  I thought I could live with that, as I was told that setting the White Balance (WB) to the appropriate setting would eliminate the underexposure.  I have not found that to be the case and this has made me very wary about taking shots with the flash at night.  I constantly have to check to see if the shot looks ok before the subjects move away.  I think I need some guidance as to how to correct this issue once and for all.  
One thing which surprised me was the filesize. Being an 8 megapixel camera, the smallest filesize still approaches half a megabyte.  Trying to e-mail photos to my friends quickly fills up their inbox and often I have to zip and send files multiple times to send all the required files.  The other thing which surprised me was that I had to use the viewfinder to take the pictures.  Being an SLR, you can't use the LCD when taking shots.  The LCD is used for review only.  I was not aware of that having been acustomed to my G2 but that was more my ignorance than a fault of the camera.  I would still recommend this camera, I have already done so to one of my close associates who have also gone ahead and bought the camera.  I can't afford another camera for sometime to come.