ID: B000FE9AKW-R17CR5AX51UJGU-A1BSJJVLO7J8YX
Category: MP3Players
Product: Remanufactured-RCA-RD2762-Micro-Jukebox
ReviewerID: A1BSJJVLO7J8YX
ReviewerName: G. Rummell
Date: September 25, 2006
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 1.0
Title: looks nice.. but runs like ****
Content:
I'm sitting here looking at my Lyra right now, staring at a (frozen) screen that says "Loading", and mind you, this is after having already rebooted the device for the up-teenth time today. 
And the kicker: I haven't even owned this device for ONE YEAR yet.
When it comes to MP3 players, this is easily the worst of the worst. There is only one word that can describe this piece of hardware... that word is "CRAPTASTIC". For those who need reasons, let me describe to you the problems I've run into so far:
1) Shoddy scroll wheel. You can tell it to scroll upward, or tell it to scroll downward... but whether the device actually SCROLLS in the direction you tell it to is anyone's guess and seems to be completely random. The hardware is, quite simply, not manufactured well at all... it almost feels sub-standard.
2) The software is worse. The device constantly loses profile of the songs you have on it. Every ten minutes or so, the device simply stops playing anything at all and will not do so again until you re-profile the contents or reboot the device. The device has behaved like this since I purchased it 9 months ago.
3) The device has recently taken to just freezing completely (and taking an extra long time to reboot afterward).
BUYER BEWARE strongly and do some research into this device if you're thinking about purchasing one. In fact, if there is one piece of advice I can give anyone who's looking into buying an MP3 player, that advice is STAY AWAY from RCA Lyras (in any form). Despite the price tag being about half that of an iPod, you manage to get even less than what you pay for it.
I will not buy another one of these devices, nor will I buy anything else from RCA if this is the standard I can expect they normally manufacture their hardware to.
Note: Please bear in mind I'm not normally a complainer, I'm actually the last one to write a bad review about anything normally... I've just seriously gotten so disgusted with this device, especially since I haven't even owned it for a single year yet and it's already failing this badly. "Buyer beware" indeed...