ID: B000TQEDE4-R1GGZ9D38BNDI5-A3T3GAXGI49STR
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1150BK-Programmable-Thermal-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3T3GAXGI49STR
ReviewerName: J. Levine
Date: May 10, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: So far so good...
Content:
It has been a while since I needed a new coffee maker. From what I read and have experienced in the excessively long search for a decent replacement to my old Krups, quality control has gone down the toilet in that time. A good coffee maker in theory may be fine for half of the people and have fatal quality problems for others. For example, the first coffee maker I chose was the Krups FMF5. I had liked my old Krups a lot and figured I'd give them another chance. I liked the thermal and the size and overall feel of the FMF5. Unfortunately it first smelled like plastic for way too long, and then wouldn't work because it didn't believe that I was adding water and kept telling me it was empty. So I returned it and got my second choice, this Cuisinart.
So far its good. The coffee tastes good and keeps fairly warm. That's really what I want in a coffee maker, plus a thermal carafe so the coffee doesn't taste burned.
Unlike the Krups it doesn't preheat the thermal carafe with a hotplate (the Krups had one that worked like the type with glass carafes, but turned off after 20 minutes.) I was worried based on what I read here that my coffee would be cold. So far it hasn't been, although I tend to drink it within 2 hours, so maybe that's why. 
The shape of the carafe is a little awkward, and it doesn't close all the way (the Krups had a little button you pushed to open the front.) But its not too bad. Similarly, the place you add the water is a little small on the Cuisinart, but not so small that I miss it.
Generally it is what I wanted- a thermal carafe, fast brewing, cone filter, and fairly nice looking. I hope it doesn't break after the return period, but I am optimistic that the 3 year warranty means that they don't break as often as some of the other ones I have read about...