ID: B000U6FUQI-R1C5PP9D1CLBJY-A18CO4MIN72DMY
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dirt-Devil-0313SLV-Cordless-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A18CO4MIN72DMY
ReviewerName: Kenna Hall "dog trainer"
Date: January 18, 2008
Helpful: 83 of 87
Rating: 1.0
Title: Nothing but a hand-vac with a tall handle that's very hard to control.
Content:
I recently installed beautiful new hardwood floors and I wanted a vacuum that was FOR hardwoods and would not scratch. This vacuum is marketed to do just that. There is no false advertising, but it just isn't a practical design, and it would be very difficult if not impossible to clean a whole floor with this thing. 
First of all, it's cordless and lightweight. It has the same suction power and battery life as a hand-vac. It also has the same suction width as a hand-vac. If you look at the picture, you can see on the front of the head where there is a little black rectangular opening; that is how wide the path of cleaning is - it makes a little stripe on your floor. There is no way I could get all the dust off my floors! It's just like cleaning your floors with a hand-vac except you don't have to be on your knees. 
Actually, it might be easier to clean your hardwoods with a hand-vac because at least you can control the hand-vac and work relatively quickly. This is my second issue: watch the video demonstration of the lady using the vacuum - do you see how slow she is going? I thought she was just going slow to look pretty and show off the vacuum, but I was wrong. That is how slow you have to go to control the crazy spinning casters on the bottom. You will feel like you're playing bumper cars - baseboards, plants, unsuspecting pets: they will all get whacked by the bulky head of this vacuum. I'm a perfectly able-bodied 20-something. I'm not a wimp. This thing is hard to control unless you go very slow. I don't have time for that.
Third issue: it does not fit into tight spaces or under furniture. You have to be right on top of a crumb to pick it up and the little opening has to be facing the crumb. No sideways suction means I can't get the corners clean - there is no way it will fit in a corner. 
So, the only reason I would recommend this to anybody is if the person is disabled and cannot use a hand-vac to pick up a small amount of dirt on the floor (perfectly legitimate if you have trouble bending over). 
The vac, according to the marketing, was designed to clean and care for your hardwood floors without scratching them, but even though it has spin wheels on the bottom to avoid scratches, it is still just a little hand-vac with a long handle and it should only be used for the occasional "whoops I stepped on a pretzel" situation. 
One star for the Kruz - because the marketing led me to believe that I could clean the dust and dirt off my floors, but I can only make 2-inch wide stripes of "clean" in an erratic pattern and then the battery dies. Sorry. I could have done that with a hand-vac and at least I could have controlled what I was drawing on the floor.