ID: B000NVVDKC-R17K4A6ONMH6YH-A2IEOF8Q1ZGF7F
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Evolt-Digital-Camera-Stabilization
ReviewerID: A2IEOF8Q1ZGF7F
ReviewerName: William H. Mclaughlin
Date: August 10, 2008
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: DSLR after film and digital point & shoot.
Content:
This is my first camera review and is based upon six weeks of heavy use of my new Olympus E-510, 10MP, DSLR with two very good kit lenses (14-42mm and 40-150mm). I bought the camera to upgrade my ability to capture indoor architectural details in historic buildings. My background includes the use of 35mm film SLRs and digital point & shoot cameras. I have been slow on getting a DSLR because I don't like big, heavy cameras in outsized bags. The E-510 is amazingly light but easy to get a good grip on. I've added a Lowepro 160 AW bag for the camera, two lenses, a spare Olympus Li-ion battery and a spare 4GB compactFlash card. There's still room for more and it is almost feather light over your shoulder.
I have taken several hundred practice images in my own home using the built-in flash and an external Olympus FL-36 electronic flash with tripod. As expected, the built-in flash is fine for quick photos of the family but more serious work demands an external flash unit. I've added a diffuser to my FL-36 and found it helpful. I've used automatic settings and tried the full range of manual settings. So far I've only used the lower resolution SQ JPEG settings. For minute detail I plan to use higher resolution HQ, SHQ and RAW settings in the future. These settings are all easy to find and quick to set using the camera's easy to read paper instruction manual and intuitive Menu viewable through the LCD window on the back of the camera.
Outdoors I've made very good use of both lenses and the image stabilization feature. When you can walk backwards in a busy zoo and can capture a two year old without blurring, you've got a great stabilization system on the camera! I've taken several hundred images of waterfalls in a dark forrest with brilliant, high-noon sun streaming through the trees and close range to distant landscape shots around a large manmade lake from a fast moving boat. All the results have been excellent. I have taken a number of these images, opened them up in Adobe Photoshop CS2 and been very pleased with the results. 
I have tried the "live view" capability and it works fine but I find myself using the viewfinder 95% of the time. So, this feature is pretty cool but up to you on how you prefer to use it. Battery life is outstanding. In other words battery life has been a complete non-issue to me, inside, outside, with or without the flash.
Concerning low-light focus problems mentioned in some other reviews. I have experienced the problem, but with all the settings this camera has, you can easily work around the issue. But it is important to know this limitation and experiment with it before you encounter it in a photo shoot situation.
If you'd like some outstanding recommendations on how to customize and save your E-510 camera settings check out this website. http://www.wrotniak.net/photo/43/e510-sett.html
One thing I have not tried yet is the panoramic shooting mode. To use this mode you must have a Panoramic xD card (I bought two CompactFlash cards, 2GB & 4GB when I bought the camera). The xD card will be my next purchase. Unless you want to spend the money, you might buy the 4GB CompactFlash card and a 1GB or 2GB xD card for starters. No, the camera does not come with a memory card upon initial purchase unless you buy a complete kit.
So, read the reviews, to include the 4 and 3 star reviews. If you make your decision to buy a E-510 and save a few bucks or buy the newest E-520 you won't be disappointed. Olympus Evolt E510 10MP Digital SLR Camera with CCD Shift Image Stabilization and 14-42mm f/3.5-5.6 and 40-150mm f/4.0-5.6 Zuiko Lenses