ID: B0001H6DMQ-R3AVBJS2P588IW-A10G80D2VR4T6D
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3755-Bagless-WindTunnel-Canister
ReviewerID: A10G80D2VR4T6D
ReviewerName: Derek Zeanah
Date: June 14, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: An improvement on the upright
Content:
I've been using another Hoover Bagless Windtunnel product for a few years (the upright model), so I'm comparing the performance of this unit with that one.
To start with, I'll say that vacuuming the house is now taking a bit longer, but the house is cleaner as a result.  With the upright it wasn't possible to clean hard floors and actually say they were 'clean' -- 'better' would have been the term.  With the canister vacuum I don't feel the need to get the broom out and clean the non-carpeted areas.
A big advantage is that this machine gets under furniture much better -- cleaning under the bed (where the dog sleeps) and under tables is simple.  The head of the vacuum fits under most pieces of furniture, so I'm not moving things (or cleaning them less often) to nearly the same degree.
The suction seems quite a bit more powerful -- I started by vacuuming a room with the upright, then going over it again with the canister vac.  It was a carpeted room but I was impressed with the additional amount of dirt/hair the new machine picked up.  Part of this could be a "new vs old" comparison, but the change was noticeable.
The 'bagless' part of the equation has been improved as well.  I don't know that I'd choose to open the dirt holder inside, but it's significantly easier and less messy to empty the container than it was on the old model.  Both filters (the HEPA filter on the exhaust fan and the primary filter) are washable in cold water as well, which seems an improvement to me.  There's a brush included with the vacuum that's specifically designed to clean out the crevices in the filter, which is an improvement over the "bang the filter against the inside of the trashcan in order to shake loose any debris" method on the upright.  There's also a light on the canister that alerts you when you need to clean the main filter, so you're not doing it too frequently.
Handling seems a little odd, but I'm used to the upright so this will probably go away.  The primary controls are a power slider to control the strength of the suction, and a button to turn on the brushes for carpet cleaning.  The cord is retractable but seems a bit shorter than I would like.  The hose is plenty long, and all the adjustments are easy to actuate quickly.
It's a good unit.  I checked consumer reports online post-purchase and found that it was a 'quick pick,' but that the cheapest editor's choice model cost $300 and wasn't a national brand (but can be found at Sears and K-Mart).  Performance is great for the price, and it does the job in my house, even with a dog that *really* knows how to shed.
I'd buy it again.  There are other models out there with more features, but this does the job competently.