ID: B00005M1VF-R2NNWK6VU2T2BQ-A3NSZD7BSX4JDS
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-TTG-500-Two-to-Go-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3NSZD7BSX4JDS
ReviewerName: Frenchfry
Date: March 27, 2006
Helpful: 19 of 19
Rating: 1.0
Title: Good if you can keep it working
Content:
UPDATED: APRIL 2nd
I wrote a review for this last week --- you can see it below this one. I loved the product, but was disappointed in that it a) stopped working after a short time and b) Cuisinart said it would take an unreasonable period of time to replace it. 
I just wanted to update my review. I called Cuisinart and they said it'd take 3 days to process paperwork and 2 weeks to pick up the unit. It actually took about 3 business days to pick up the unit... and in 2 business days I had my new coffeepot. In total... 1 week.. not too shabby!
Although the unit burning out seems to be an issue with some of these units (see previous reviews by others as well), Cuisinart will stand behind their product -- hopefully they will correct the problem.
BTW if I could update my stars I'd put it at a 4-star rating - had it not burned out to begin with I'd given it 5-stars.
-------------Written March 27th ---------------------------------
When I first got this product I loved it.  I'm not a daily coffee drinker -- but every once in a while I like to brew a cup.
At first, I liked that I could just get a cup or two and go. I don't care that it doesn't have a warming plate for 3 reasons:
1st - It stays warm enough for me in the cup and 
2nd - I don't usually let my coffee sit and wait for more then 20 minutes
3rd - If I'm not "going" I'd like the option to brew directly into a glass mug (which works fine).
Additionally, I found it easy to clean --- the basket pops right out and no pot to clean.. just the cups.. if you rinse them out when your done clean up is nothing.
Like many other reviewers (honestly -- too many to ignore) mine stopped working after about 10 uses.  It just doesn't turn on. This is apparently a common problem.  However, it does have a 3 year warranty. So I called them.
ANYONE ELSE WHO HAS HAD THEIRS BREAK DOWN CALL CUSINART AND SEND IT BACK!! Maybe they'll get the message -- at least it will cost them enough to fix them all that it'll make them think twice about putting such low quality products on the market. Really, coffee pots are not rocket science!
The number for cuisinart repair is: 
1-800-243-8546
THE SERVICE AT CUISINART STINKS!
Basically, they said it would take 3 days to process the paperwork and 2 weeks for them to send UPS to pick it up.  No estimate on how long it will actually take to return it.  Fortunately, I have an old stovetop revereware drip pot (which works fantastically - but more work to clean).  Since I'm not a daily coffee drinker it isn't a huge deal to be without my coffeepot for - what appears to be at least - a month. However, my significant other would be in absolute misery (as would I) if it weren't for the backup.
IF ANYONE FROM CUISINART READS THIS!! Do you seriously think that your speed of service is acceptable??  Heck, I can get my laptop (which is just slightly more complicated) fixed in a day or two! This should not take more than a week to fix.