ID: B000VDQ38E-R2LOVW0X7BBNR1-A1ALSHTL8T6B9U
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1ALSHTL8T6B9U
ReviewerName: Pet friendly
Date: March 8, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Have I EVER vacuumed before?
Content:
So like so many Bissell vacuum owners, I did have my heart set on a Dyson, but just could not afford it.  I have 4 cats and live in a house with wall-to-wall carpet.  I really needed a good vacuum.  Before splurging on a Dyson, I decided to check out the Bissell 3920.  I heard it was a close 2nd to the Dyson Animal at a fraction of the cost.  This is a nice machine and works very well on carpeting.  The first time I used it I was amazed at how much it picked up.  It was as if I had never vacuumed before.  This model calls itself the "Pet Eraser".  Honestly, the attachments are not something to rave about. I don't think they are necessary great from picking up pet hair.  You can only attach them to the curved part of the hose, but you can not use the extender with the attachments. So if you have to vacuum down a flight of stairs using the attachments, you won't get very far from the landing.  I believe there are adapters for the pet attachments, but I can not find them sold separately.  Perhaps the adapters are used with the extender. By the way, DO NOT BUY THE ATTACHMENTS.  The vacuum comes with everything you need.  When using the upright part of the machine, there is a strip of material near the suction which is supposed to help pick up pet hair.  You won't need to clean this. This material attracts the pet hair and rolls it up as you vacuum.  As it does this, the pet hair will eventually peel off and be sucked up into the canister.  The vacuum canister is easy to empty.  I found the machine to be a bit heavy.  You also have to do some moderately easy (but annoying) assembly.  The instructions are clear, but the pictures could be better.  So far, I like the Bissell 3920.  I'll update this review periodically as I discover more.