ID: B0007Y6BO8-R2VIC9PUOPIM34-AWOJLYU0FPAMO
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Krups-FME2-14-12-Cup-Coffeemaker-Carafe
ReviewerID: AWOJLYU0FPAMO
ReviewerName: Matthew Paige
Date: July 23, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Unfortunately it's the best designed machine for the money.
Content:
I really shopped when my old Krupps died after 15 years.  I decided I wanted to shop around and try to get a new machine in white to match all my other kitchen appliances.  What I found was that all the machines currently on the market now (July, 2009) are pretty crappy as far as how thye are designed, and by the reviews the best you can hope for in some cases is somethign that looks nice but doesn't work all that well.
The downside of this machine.
1. I could only fin it in the one color, and on the Krupps website they did nto seem to make any other color, so I figure i was stuck with a the dark color.
2. You will read in other reviews that there is a plastic smell and/pr taste when you use your machine.  This is true of virtually all machines anymore.  They do not vulcanize the plastic before they put it all together.  However, the higher end older model had the same problem when I first bought it 15 years ago, and this is nothing new.  As the p[lastic gets heated and colls over and over again, it will bulcanize and this will be less of a problem.  i recommend running the machine through with just water three times before you use it, lettign it cool down completely each time before running it again, to elp the bulcanization of the plastic process along
Tips
1. Use the gold filter.  I tis worth the money.
2. After grinding the beans, or placing grounds into the filter, add a shake or two of cinnamon.  It will take out the bitter edge of the coffee and help disguise any plastic taste until that is no longer a problem.
3.  use filetered water, for better tasting cofee.  Near where I live there is a store that sells water for fortyfive cents a gallon, where you just fill your own bottles.  Anyway, their system purifies the water so that contaminants are only one tenth of water i can get anywhere else. Needless to say it tastes great and makes great coffee.
Advantage of this particular machine
The one advantage of this partivular machine is that since virtually every doffee maker overflows sometime over it's lifetime, this machine has the reservoir and the place where the grouns go completely separate, so that if an overflow happens you willnot be cleaning grounds out of the reservoir area.  In short, i did not want to have to deal with a mess or the possibility of ground getting stuck in and clogging the water pump.  This was the ONLY machine that was designed so thee was no way an overflow could put grounds into the reservior area, and was the ultimate reason i bought t, as they all seem to be rated with some problems of one kind or another.