ID: B0000YTYGM-R1CK1J3UDPWTXI-A3LIVAFW74SA0N
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DTC-975BKN-Programmable-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3LIVAFW74SA0N
ReviewerName: V. Lawless
Date: January 12, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: This is the absolute BEST coffeemaker I've ever owned!
Content:
When I purchased this coffeemaker in October 2007, I diligently read all the reviews here before deciding to give this coffeemaker a try. I'm so glad I did not place too much concern with the negative reviews here. This is the best darned coffeemaker I've ever owned. I use it at least once a day and many times twice a day and I'm so incredibly pleased with it.
There are two possible reasons for the issues with the leakage, both of which are user caused, one of which I experienced myself. 1st, if you don't use the carafe to fill the water reservoir, you take the chance of overfilling with water. Overfilling will lead to leakage. Use the carafe to fill the reservoir and you'll get the right amount of water in there every time. And 2nd, if you don't get the part with the coffee and filter swung in and snapped in properly under the carafe lid, you'll most certainly have leakage with that. This was my error and I have only done that once. Completely my fault, and not the fault of the coffeemaker.
Yes, the coffeemaker beeps. Our bedroom door is very close to the kitchen area where the coffeemaker sits, but the beeps have not ever woken up myself or my husband when it's finished brewing. So the beeps are not a concern for us.
Yes, the carafe lid must be screwed on straight and all the way to the end where it stops. No big deal, it's not hard to do at all.
But boy oh boy does it make a great pot of coffee or tea! (We bought a 2nd carafe so we have one for my husband's coffee and one for my hot brewed tea). It keeps the liquids steaming hot for much longer than my initial expectations. I thought, ok... if this will keep the coffee or tea hot for at least 4 hours, we're good to go. Oh my, little did I know.. how about steaming hot for 12 hours ?!?!? I can make coffee before I go to bed and it's still as hot as when it was brewed when I wake up the next morning. Unbelievable!
So if you can screw on a lid, snap in a coffee filter basket and fill a reservoir with the carafe, you can't go wrong. I cannot sing enough praises about this machine! :)