ID: B000NDMADO-RT1CPKK9FOBT2-A3MWPBZ5VK797Z
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dyson-DC21-Stowaway-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A3MWPBZ5VK797Z
ReviewerName: Denise C. "Denise"
Date: November 10, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 2.0
Title: Not it's biggest fan
Content:
So I go to the store because my previous upright (the Dyson DC14), has seen it's last pass over our carpets.  Because we have a long haired Norwegian Forest Cat I am set on getting a Dyson ANIMAL.  
Too bad, the club store I am at doesn't carry it anymore, and the only one left in stock is the floor model which comes with none of the tools, paperwork or box.  Despite the sizable  discount on an already great price, I decline.
So I reluctantly get this model over The Ball because the canister on that model is the size of a 1.5 liter bottle of soda.  It literally looked like a stick vac! 
Here are my reasons for disliking  The Stowaway: 
1. It is not an upright.
2. The tools don't seem to fit right on board, and keep falling off. (You can easily interpret that to mean: I WILL LOSE THEM, and it won't be long before I have to replace each piece. KA-CHING!!)
3. It only wants to roll one way: FORWARD. The front wheel does not swivel, so you have to pick it up and move it if you are changing directions, (I HATE THAT!)
4. The canister is small so I'm constantly emptying it. (I not only have a long haired kitty, I also have a husband with an affection for baby powder.)
 
*****But the top reason I HATE this vacuum is that the cord is WAY TO FREAKING SHORT!*****
I live in a 3 bedroom apartment in NYC where we are notorious for being big on rent and small on square footage, and sometimes this cord won't even make it to the other side of the room!  It's a good thing the builder put a lot of extra outlets in each room or I'd need an extension cord just to vacuum.  Dyson thought of so many other ingenious details, (the head is more compact so you can now get under low-lying furniture, and there is a foot groove on the head so you back right around a leg while vacuuming underneath of a piece of furniture instead of having to get down on your hands and knees to get the same area clean), but why didn't he think of putting a cord that is longer than 16 feet on it?  I can't even imagine what I'd do if I lived in a large home with big rooms!  On my DC-14 I could plug it in in my living room, (the front of the house), and vacuum almost halfway into the back bedroom before changing outlets. Now I have to change outlets in the living room.
Granted, they've improved with age and it definitely has better suction than my previous one, but these are not reasons to give it any more than 2 stars.  Sorry Dyson, you missed the mark with this one!