ID: B000BY9A3I-R1V0J6KEYI196W-A3F568LKP25VVS
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dirt-Devil-082700-Vision-Canister
ReviewerID: A3F568LKP25VVS
ReviewerName: J. Watson
Date: June 14, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 3.0
Title: A fair and honest review
Content:
I purchased the Dirt Devil Vision after much research and review.  My house has mostly laminate, tile, and linoleum floors with 3 bedrooms having a very low pile, wall to wall, carpet.  I really wanted a vacuum that was designed for cleaning the non carpeted floors and area rugs, but would still be good enough for use on my wall to wall carpets.  This vacuum seemed like a good match of a hard surface tool and a air driven carpet tool.  
The good:
This vacuum has a surprising amount of suction(airflow) and although I didn't think I would use it, I ended up using the adjustable suction a lot!  It was so convenient being on the handle and I loved that it actually turned down the speed of the vacuum motor not just opened a hole or something in the handle.  The vacuum looks nice and feels like a decent quality for its price.   It's more quiet than most canister vacs I've tried too.  The hard surface attachment did seem to be designed to not scuff or harm hardwood floors or table legs.
The bad:
This vacuum suffers from some serious flaws.  I am not sure of the designer's intent but it seems like they tried to make a vacuum that would be good at both carpeted and none carpeted floors.  Unfortunately they made something that isn't very good at either.  As a hard surface only vacuum the dirt devil vision could have been great except that the floor tool they offer for this purpose is more like something I would expect a maker to throw in the box as an after thought for a purely carpet only machine.  The twisting head sounds nice but it has a friction joint in it that is designed to make it hold the head in whatever twisted position you put it in.  Unfortunately that means having to reach down and twist it back straight with your hand or your foot every time you finish cleaning around that chair leg.  You can twist it by just twisting the hose handle but it sticks and will not go back without using your hand.  It is amazingly frustrating.  The hard surface tool is also very small.  If you only had hard surfaces to clean, I would suggest going out and buying another head for this vacuum.  At 10" it is just too small for large open areas.  12" would be decent and vacuums that are serious about being designed for hardwood floors would be 14".
The air driven carpet tool was the biggest problem for me.  I ended up returning the machine because of this attachments poor quality and design.  While it may be for carpeting, they still included a hard rubber strip on the bottom that I can only assume is for when the tool is used on hard surfaces (which makes no sense to me, it already has an attachment for that) but it caused me all sorts of problems on my carpet because of it.  The rubber strip does not move across the carpet well and often made pushing the carpet head very difficult if not impossible on one of my largest area rugs.  If you apply any pressure to the head at all the air-driven brush head stops.  On several of my low pile carpets just the weight of the head itself cased the brush to not spin.  
Conclusion:
Overall, I really liked this vacuum but the attachments were so poorly designed and thought out, with serious quality issues, that I cannot find a reason to recommend this product.  I am going to go ahead and offer the product 3 stars because the vacuum base is pretty good and if you only have hard surfaces and buy another hardwood floor head (around $20 elsewhere) the total price and end product are still pretty good.
If you expect this vacuum to work in a home with equal amounts of hard and soft flooring or any wall to wall carpet, you have a serious disappointment coming.
Know what your buying and what it's good at (and NOT good at) before buying this product!