ID: B000A33B1C-R3PII0O43HZRK-A2CT6EL2X3WRPF
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Delonghi-TRD0715T-Safe-Oil-Filled-Radiator
ReviewerID: A2CT6EL2X3WRPF
ReviewerName: Christine
Date: January 3, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 3.0
Title: Good Heater but I only gave it three stars because...
Content:
I did alot of research on heaters in general before deciding to purchase this particular heating unit. It does get really good reviews and is a good "safer" (as safe as space heaters can be) type of heating unit. 
  I had read some other reviews and was under the impression that it would heat up my whole basement to a comfortable level and that just wasn't so. It may work differently for you depending on alot of circumstances one being which state you live in and how cold it gets where you live.
  We live in the North Eastern part of the U.S. and it gets cold here! Our basement is a finished basement (ie: walls, carpet, doors) but has no other source of heat and is approx. 300-350 sq. ft. My Dad gave us a Heat Surge rolling fireplace for Christmas which we eagerly put into the basement too and that paired with the the use of the Delonghi Safe Heat heater keeps the temperature at a comfortable level.
   What I like about the Delonghi: It is "safer", it is easy to move around if needed because it has wheels, it has a sturdy stance (you don't have to worry about it falling over if you just walk by it)I imagine in a smaller room or used as supplemental heating it would work quite well.
   Things someone may not like about it: Another "reviewer" pointed out that it has a strange smell that it omits for about 2 weeks or so while running it. Well it does and it is a weird burning smell I have to believe that it has something to with whatever coating covers the unit. For those sensitive to smells it may curl your nosehairs a bit or even give you a headache. To me it was just annoying but I assure that the smell eventually goes away. Another tidbit a few other reviewers pointed out was to make sure that you remove all of the styrofoam bits out of all of the crevices before you start using it. Good Tip!! 
  Most of the heat comes from the top of the unit ;however: the sides of the unit get heated as well (esp. if on 3) and can get pretty hot to the touch for those of you with young ones. Lastly, the timer function is a little confusing at first to understand also you need nails or small little fingers (as I do) to push/pull the little tiny "pins" up and down. In all fairness it does have the nickname The Dragon and it does work well but I only gave it three stars because it didn't work the way that I had anticipated using it for.