ID: B000YJJ48G-RCRSIY0IZRB4O-A2LED2XB8B54JG
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-CMD3400MB-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A2LED2XB8B54JG
ReviewerName: M. House
Date: January 27, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 2.0
Title: Shuts Off At Completion Of Brewing; Cold Coffee
Content:
It seems to brew OK and the taste is what I would expect. The clock hasn't done anything strange yet and it brews to completion. I really like the carafe/pot; it's nice to see that someone can make one that doesn't cause coffee to pour down the side of the pot and onto the counter. The one problem that will probably cause me to return the coffee maker is that it keeps shutting off immediately after the coffee finishes brewing. It's supposed to stay on for two hours, but it shuts off almost every time it finishes. Since it shuts of, the warmer doesn't keep the coffee hot. By the time I get around to pouring it into my thermos, it's lukewarm. If I press the power button again, it will try to brew for a minute or so, and then it beeps again as if it's finished brewing, except this time the unit stays on. It should stay on after the first brew cycle; I shouldn't have to turn it back on again.
EDIT:
I've now had the coffee maker for 1 year and 1 month. It suddenly quit working this morning. I brewed a pot of coffee about 6 hours earlier and when I tried to brew the latest pot, it refused to work. It beeped about 10-15 minutes after I turned it on, as if it had finished, but there was nothing there and the warmer was cold. My first thought was that I forgot to add water, but I checked and it was full of water. Since it has water in it and the warmer remains cold, I assume it simply quit working. The warranty is only 1 year, so it quit 1 month past the warranty cutoff. Another complaint is that most of the LEDs quit working about 3 months after I bought it, including the power LED, so I couldn't tell if it was on or off by looking at it. I also think it brews too slowly at 10-15 minutes for a full pot, but that may just be me. Lastly, the coffee tasted average and the same regardless of which setting I used (mild/regular/strong).
For positives, the machine looks nice with the black and stainless steel along with the blue LEDs. It also comes with a replaceable carbon water filter and it's programmable. I never programmed mine, but it seems to be easy to figure out.
I used it almost daily, occasionally twice daily, for just over a year. I paid 50 for mine though, and ultimately I'm a bit disappointed that it only lasted 1 year. If I could have gotten it at the current price, I would feel a little better about it quitting on me. I'll be choosing a different brand this time around. Be sure to save your receipt/invoice in case yours quits within the warranty period. I've read some reviews on another site and a few people had theirs quit within 3 months or less. I guess 1 year and over 300 uses isn't terrible, but I had hoped for more considering what I paid for it.