ID: B000FVU4A0-R271DG8Z8X27IK-AHQOS7QJRA9DQ
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Michael-Graves-Automatic-Coffeemaker-2840304-29
ReviewerID: AHQOS7QJRA9DQ
ReviewerName: JnL
Date: July 2, 2009
Helpful: 14 of 19
Rating: 1.0
Title: "Designer" coffee maker with major design flaws
Content:
After reading rave reviews from Consumer Reports about this coffee maker we immediately ran out to purchase one at our local Target stores - only to find them repeatedly out of stock.  Finally, we found one last night in stock and were much excited about the purchase... that's where our excitement ended.
As soon as we unpacked the item and plugged it in on our countertop, we discovered several major (by our expectations) design flaws concerning this coffee maker.  First, the power cord is very, very short.  We're sure this is somewhat of a safety feature, but you need to make sure you have an outlet very close to where you plan to sit this coffee maker or you will need an extension cord (much more of safety concern IMHO).  Next, as others have stated, the blue "night light" on the front of this coffee maker is WAY TOO BRIGHT; with the numbers being somewhat distorted and difficult to read due to the convex glass dial covering (which also makes it look like your viewing the numbers though a magnifying glass).  Lastly, the coffee pot itself simply does not pour easily!  Trying to overlook the other "flaws" in this maker's design, we intended to run a few pots of water through it to clean it out and see how it managed water flow.  Much to our chagrin, we found it nearly impossible to pour water out of the carafe without having it run completely over the pouring lip of the carafe.  When pouring water out at any "normal" rate, the water appears to simply "dump" right over the top of the carafe (not even touching the pouring lip!).  The carafe is so rounded at the top that you simply can't handle the carafe without just "dumping" out the last bit of water/coffee in the pot.
About the only positive thing that we can now say about this coffee maker is that it packs back up in it's original packing material for easy return to it's place of purchase.