ID: B000U96FA0-RUAYIX81QF3K9-A2EF8N7ZE7ONWX
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Lasko-5365-30-Inch-Space-Saving-Pedestal
ReviewerID: A2EF8N7ZE7ONWX
ReviewerName: snapcrackle "snapcrackle"
Date: November 7, 2007
Helpful: 47 of 47
Rating: 4.0
Title: Nice heater, check the features to see if it's for you
Content:
This could be a very good heater option for some people, if the features fit what you need.
It takes up relatively little floor space, and the pedestal design puts the heater up a little higher, if that suits your needs.  (A regular tower heater might be fine for lots of people, though.)
It's 30 tall" and the base is a 12" circle.  The top part is about 7.5" wide at the top (the widest part).  
Pros:
-  High 1500W (5118 BTU) and low 900W (3070 BTU) settings.  And two fan speeds to go with that - the fans runs more slowly and quieter on low - which is a feature that's missing on many heaters for some inexplicable reason.
- Quiet for a heater with a fan, especially on the low setting.  (But that can't be used with the auto thermostat setting, see below!)
- Well built, and well packed.
- The light weight and convenient handle, at the top of the back, make it easy to carry and move around.
- The controls are well placed, easy to read, and make sense - they do the things you'd think they should.
- The LCD shows the room temperature and the thermostat setting, exactly - no guessing on a dial with marks around it!  Both seem very accurate - it matches a digital thermometer I have in the room.
Cons:
- The biggest one by far for me - the auto setting (to maintain the temperature you set) only uses high heat.  Low auto isn't an option.  
- No automatic shutoff if it tips over.  Maybe the overheat protection would take care of it, and it doesn't really get that hot - but I'd think they'd want to have that in a heater with this design.
- The base looks a little big - 12" across - but I suppose it has to be to make the pedestal work.
There's no auto low setting - which was the main reason I wanted this heater, to have something quiet that could maintain the temperature in a bedroom at night.  That would also mean it would switch on and off fewer times, and draw less peak electric current.  Big oversight on the manufacturer's part.
Though otherwise, it's about as quiet as fan heater could be, I imagine.  If you need something quieter, look at something like the DeLonghi HHP1500 Mica Panel Radiator - very quiet, but the heat circulates only by convection (hot air rising), which might not work for all situations.
This heater requires some assembly of the pedestal and base.  Just tightening some screws, really, but it's a little cumbersome since the top piece can't rest anywhere given the shape.  Just plan on it taking ten minutes or so.
The manufacturers website, laskoproducts.com, has more info and you can download the owners' manuals in pdf form.
There are multiple model number versions of this heater - 5355, 5365, and 5350 - and as far as I can tell they vary only in the colors and what stores sell them.  You can read lots more comments on a similar version of this heater at the HomeDepot website.