ID: B000696OIC-R2KNN0PSK50PA1-A1A54HGJ5657NA
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: DeLonghi-DCM485-Thermal-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A1A54HGJ5657NA
ReviewerName: Dr. Monkeychick
Date: January 18, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 2.0
Title: Coffee is fine, machine is annoying
Content:
My husband and I received this as a gift, and although we probably tend more toward the neurotic side, there are some features that I suspect a lot of people might find really annoying. 
Here's the good:
The coffee tastes great, the unit looks good, and the carafe keeps the coffee hot (at least relative to brew temperature - we weren't as sensitive to this as other reviewers and always found the coffee hot enough for us.) The removable water reservoir is also nice - no spilling when trying to pour in from the carafe.
The not so good: 
We found the mechanism for setting the clock to be really frustrating. There aren't separate hour and minute buttons so you have to cycle through a poorly designed interface every time you want to re-set -  which you will have to do every time you unplug your machine. This quickly grows tiresome if if you have to unplug your machine at all regularly (which we do). In fact, we have found re-setting the clock so frustrating that we don't even bother, which means that we have also given up the auto brew feature - which is one thing that is pretty uncomplicated on even the cheapest machines these days.
Also, we have had the same inability to conveniently locate the water filters, and we have found that the carafe does drip sometimes, even when the arrows appear to be lined up. This is both unpredictable and mysterious. 
The most frustrating thing for us is cleaning the carafe. You can't put it in the dishwasher, and when you rinse by hand, the inside never fully dries. The opening is also fairly small for reaching in with a sponge or towel, which may not be uncomfortable for everyone, but I'm more of a rinse and let air dry and then throw in the dishwasher every couple days kind of person when it comes to carafes. 
Different things may annoy different people, and while there aren't any huge flaws in this machine, all the small oversights and annoyances overshadow its main benefit - the ability to brew decent coffee - and plenty of other machines can do that. The bottom line is that although this unit looks nicer, our old ($20) machine reliably made perfectly acceptable coffee with no spills, no frustrations, and easier cleaning.