ID: B000HAVWQE-R2Y76MYGIDL9HE-AAFG4FC0KY26C
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-Ultraslim-Portable-Recorder-500860
ReviewerID: AAFG4FC0KY26C
ReviewerName: Buckwheat
Date: October 10, 2006
Helpful: 21 of 23
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great product
Content:
Archos started making portable video players 6 or 7 years ago. It seems that they have relentlessly tried to continue to improve and evolve their basic machine. IMHO this is a great update to all of its predecessors. 
The box and packaging are very plain compaired to all the fancy packaging that comes w/most digital players today - a good thing IMO, spend more on the development of the player, and not how cool the packaging of the box is.
Box contains: 
Archos 604, 1 replacable battery, ear buds, proprietary USB 2.0 cable for charging the device and transfering content, setup guide, DVR station adapter and a piece of crap storage bag. 
The screen is awesome: big, bright, 16:9 layout, w/a wide viewing angle. It's about as thick as my 60g ipod. Most of the surface of the player is taken up by screen. The operational buttons are well layed out and after a little trial and error, quite functional.
The unit seems well constructed, made of high density plastic and metal. The metal has a nice brushed surface that looks clean, showing no fingerprints. Even though it is similar to the AV500, I think it looks a lot more stylish, and the navigational buttons are much more intuitive.
The first thing I did while charging the unit was download the latest firmware as well as a newer version of the manual contained in a pdf file. It came w/a pdf manual already on the unit, but the one on the website is a newer version.
The interface is pretty cool, sporting animated icons for all of the basic funtions. When connecting to your computer it asks you if you want to: charge only, sync (via WMP) or mount as a hard drive. Since I pretty much hate WMP (even though 11 is a bit better), I chose the latter.
Transfer speeds were pretty quick for music, photos and some videos I already had converted on my puter's HD. I use iriverter to convert my DVD's, which works quite well and efficiently.
Through Sony headphones (don't know about the included earbuds as I chucked those as I do w/all the devices I purchase) the music sounded very good, the pictures are crystal clear and the videos very impressive. You can make slide shows w/transitions and basic effects and watch them whilst listening to tunes. Music has gapless playback.You can also load and view pdf files - haven't done that yet
The speaker is small and sounds about as you'd expect, (a little soft on volume) but should come in handy on occasions when headphones or earbuds are impractical. The built in kickstand is a nice feature for propping the unit up on flat surfaces. 
Has a built in microphone which I have not tried yet. 
You can record from TV, VHS, or DVD player just like a DVR but it requires an optional $99 (list) dock - which really isn't bad considering the low initial price of the unit. The dock also enables transfer of photos directly from your digital camera and I'm not sure but I think video straight from your camcorder.
I plan on picking up the dock when it becomes available.
Battery life is advertised at 14+ for music, 8+ for music w/photo slideshows, 4+ for video. I can't answer to any of that as yet.
I'll try and update after using the unit a bit more, but for now I'll summerize by saying:
This is one AWESOME machine! As stated before, the navigational buttons take some getting used to, the storage bag is a joke, has to be charged via puter w/proprietary USB.
No device is perfect, as this one is not, but I defy anyone to find a solidy built, feature packed, quality 30g unit for this amazing price. 
I do want to make it very clear that this is a portable video device that also plays music very well. I say that just to alert you to the fact that it is large from a DAP stand point, but VERY sveltte from a portable video player stand point.