ID: B000VDQ38E-RV5O2VKV3G3HA-A2DA9HBO9DWH8F
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A2DA9HBO9DWH8F
ReviewerName: R. Ritchey
Date: December 31, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very pleased with purchase and initial performance of vacuum.
Content:
We just purchased this as a replacement for another vacuum that needed replacement.  I'm glad that we did, having used the old vacuum just a couple of days ago this one picked up an amazing amount of finer dirt particles than the older one ever did and additional dog hair that the old one didn't.  
Keep in mind this review is based on an initial impression and not long term usage.  I'm very happy with it but it will remain to be seen how it holds up over time.
Pros:
1.  Easy assembly, 3 Phillip head screws and a couple of snap in parts.
2.  Longer handle.  If you're a taller person or don't like having to be bent over while vacuuming you'll like this one, it's the tallest one I've seen.  It's roughly 4" taller than our previous vacuum.
3.  Only two filters.  There's one washable filter below the collection canister and one replaceable HEPA filter.  Our older one has too many filters and cost a fortune to replace.
4.  Decently weighted vacuum - it's not light and feels decently built.
5.  'Clean filter indicator'.  Simple indicator that's green when air is flowing at a correct volume through the system and red/black when there's a blockage or the filter(s) need cleaning/replaced.  No more guessing as to whether it's actually operating at full strength or not anymore.
6.  Transparent tubes.  If there's a blockage you'll be able to see where it's at, you won't have to tear the whole thing apart to find it to clear it.
7.  Fairly quiet.  I have to admit that it's probably the quietest vacuum I've used - it's not whisper quiet but it didn't have our dog running for cover like other vacuums have.
Cons:
1.  There's a flip down bar on the nose that's for pet hair, it makes the nose thicker when it's in the up position. With it up I can't go under the kitchen cabinets like I could with other vacuums, and with it down I can't get in as close because it extends the nose.  It looks like it may be able to be easily removed if you don't like/use it by removing two Philip head screws which I may do.
2.  The 'curved wand' that you attach to the end of the hose and have to put through a loop on the back to connect it to the tube for the beater bar.  I'm sure the extra length will be handy when using the wand attachments but it's just plain awkward trying to re-connect it on the back of the vacuum because of the loop you have to put it through and the curve of the tube/vacuum itself.
3.  Although simple to assemble the instructions aren't very clear.  If you're used to assembling things without reading directions you'll figure it out without any problems but if you rely on clear instructions for help you may be scratching you're head a couple of times.