ID: B0006DNMZG-R5FK6809ZKB2Z-A3S9DOTT4Z8JF9
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Honeywell-HZ-2200-Tower-Surround-Heater
ReviewerID: A3S9DOTT4Z8JF9
ReviewerName: Amozarte "If everyone is thinking alike, then...
Date: February 5, 2008
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 2.0
Title: Poor fan/heat dispersal
Content:
I own three of these- bought them all at the same time when a local store had them on clearance for a super-cheap price.  I had the same problems below with all three units.
The first problem is that while they generate a great deal of heat, the fan fails to spread that heat across any meaningful area.  Rather than force the air away from the unit with a sideways fan, this fan is located at the bottom, aiming straight upward.  The interior of the upper housing is somewhat cone-shaped, the idea being to guide the air out of the housing at an angle.  This idea fails in practise, though.
Since the air isn't forced away from the unit, and since the thermostat is particularly sensitive, the unit heats the area immediately surrounding itself and then shuts off, leaving the rest of the room unaffected.  This unit will do the job under your desk at work or for bathrooms but don't expect it to reliably heat anything larger.
By the way, if all you need is a bathroom/work heater you can find units that perform that very basic task for half the price.  (DeLonghi DFH132 SafeHeat Fan Heater, for example, works quite well)
Durability is another issue.  The unit eventually becomes completely useless after several months- also due to the poor thermostat.  The heater will only turn on for about thirty to forty five seconds at a time- just long enough for it to really warm itself up, then *poof*, it shuts off- even at the highest temperature setting.
Another concern is that the housing gets extremely hot- even the plastic.  After a few months of use the top housing had warped to the point that the switch between "directed" heat and "surround" heat became melted in place.
Overall I would summarise this unit by saying that for the price, you can find a lot better performance.  Alternatively, for the same performance you can find a lot better price.