ID: B00008UI0R-RNBB62E5VPFOC-A2EIPWXIGRBPLA
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A2EIPWXIGRBPLA
ReviewerName: L. Norberg "LarsCA"
Date: September 10, 2006
Helpful: 22 of 23
Rating: 3.0
Title: Great on wall-to-wall carpets, but not so good on hardwood
Content:
I've had this vacuum for a year or so and I've found that it works really well on carpet. The revolving brissels in combination with the powerful suction really does a great job at keeping my carpets clean. But on hardwood or tile floors... Well, it's almost like you need 2 vacuums if your house has both. This vacuum is basically useless on anything but carpets.
Also, the whole deal with being bagless is a major drawback. Sure, there's no bag so guess what happens? You end up with this canister full of dust. Dust that will go everywhere when you pop the lid off and empty it out in the trash. Bagless vacuums are nothing but a fad, and hopefully the marketing geniuses will again zero in on vacuums WITH bags so you don't have to deal with all the dust. Also, the filter that sits inside the canister needs to be "plucked" or if you have an air compressor, you need to blow all the dust out of it every 6-12 months or the vacuum will lose suction.
As with all vacuums with revolving brissels sooner or later you will find yourself with a knife, screwdriver, and sissors trying to pluck the long threads out of the revolving part so it will "revolve" a little easier.
The cord is long enough to let me vacuum my whole 1400 sq.ft. house by just plugging it in the outlet at 3 different spots. Everything works, and it does do a good job on our wall-to-wall carpets. The controls on the handle function well. It goes really flat so you can slide it in under beds and couches for cleaning the dust-bunnies away. You can adjust the length of the tube easily and it actually does make it a little easier on your lower back. The hose and connectors feel sturdy and fit well. For the money you spend, it's a pretty good deal. But I don't expect it to live forever. If I can get 5 years out of it I'll be happy.