ID: B000I1YWLY-R1BJKE3AQOQZ7F-A2P6JGHHGO0WKQ
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL-Bagless-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A2P6JGHHGO0WKQ
ReviewerName: T. Gasko
Date: November 25, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best Bagless Canister on the Market
Content:
I LOVE my new Electrolux Twin Clean canister vacuum.  After looking at most other bagless canister cleaners, I chose this one because it is made by Eureka (even though it says Electrolux - Eureka bought the name in 2003) so the parts should be easy to come by.  The power nozzle is very quiet and grooms the carpet very well - removing all traces of pet hair and fluffing up the nap excellently.  The machine is very well featured, the two speed motor is a dream come true if you have area rugs (the lower suction won't drag the area rug all over). The High speed is almost too much suction - yet the noise level is very low.  I like the fact that the machine cleans its own Hepa filter (which is also washable once a year in warm water) so I won't have any replacement costs.  Having the suction (motor speed) control on the hose handle, as well as the on/off switch for the motor and the power head is wonderful - I don't have to go back to the cleaner to switch it on and off.  The large bare floor brush is really almost too large, it sweeps the kitchen floor clean in no time and I've used it for the concrete floor of the garage during our fall cleaning.  The long cord on the automatic cord winder moves back in smoothly and without whipping the plug around (got socked in the eye once by our old Hoover's cord reel whipping the plug as it wound the cord back in).  All in all, I'm very impressed with the Electrolux Twin Clean - the price on Amazon is the lowest I encountered on the internet, and the shipping was free.  What more could I ask for?  When my refurbished cleaner arrived, the hose was deformed by having been placed incorrectly in the carton (the cleaner sat on top of the hose) and was crushed.  I called Electrolux and they had one shipped at no cost me, in less than a week, right to my door.  Customer service is very good, and the people who answered the phone are Americans (you can understand them).  With it's tremendous cleaning ability, low cost, zero cost to maintain, and quiet operation - this vacuum is easily one of the best vacuums I've ever owned.