ID: B00008UI0R-R18QWCC9MFG9H2-A176T97ALE551T
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A176T97ALE551T
ReviewerName: A. Evans "Ark Mom-2 kids, 2 dogs, 2 cats, 2 s...
Date: May 28, 2006
Helpful: 17 of 17
Rating: 5.0
Title: Awesome for stairs and pet hair!
Content:
After much research, I bought this vac which is in addition to a 5 or so year-old Hoover Upright Windtunnel bagged vac (which replaced a Kirby). I love the upright and the windtunnel suction, butwe  have moved and now have very thick, high pile carpet in the bedrooms and the carpet height adjustment just wasn't tall enough PLUS we also now having stairs, I needed a better/different vac. I had tried my mother's Electrolux Oxygen canister vac a year ago and liked it, but I wanted to stick with Hoover. We have two dogs, two cats and two kids, so I need a workhorse vacuum! I originally was against bagless, but the bagged model similar to this one said the bags were hard to find, so THIS model became my choice due to having stairs and not needing to adjust the nozzel height. Ordered it on Wednesday night, it arrived Saturday morning--woohoo!!
This is an amazing vac! The little suction-powered stair attachment works wonderfully! Very nice on stairs and does take cat hair off furniture very easily! Yay! The unpowered brush of the upright extension did an ok job, but I had to go over it several passes. (and I vac at least every other day and the furniture about twice a week). The auto adjustment height for the power nozzle is wonderful and very easy to use controls right on the handle-SMART DESIGN! I can go from the thick pile carpet w/o dragging or "burning" the carpet (like the upright did) and move right to the hard floors with only one touch of the very convienent "brush on/off" button.  I was skeptical about the varying power strengths, but I am sold now...you can put the nozzle on a rug, turn it on low or medium power and clean the rug w/o either 1-sucking up the rug, 2-burning the rug up with a stuck beater bar, or 3-bust/burn a belt along with #1