ID: B000I0YWQK-RJNDWNL0ITG15-A145B8OHVNNFAJ
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Holmes-HCH6150-UM-Triple-Ceramic-Tower
ReviewerID: A145B8OHVNNFAJ
ReviewerName: Steward Willons
Date: November 27, 2007
Helpful: 8 of 9
Rating: 4.0
Title: Efficient and safe
Content:
This is a very decent heater. It's small, nearly silent, and appears to be quite safe. So far, I've been using mine in a standard-sized bedroom, which is efficiently fills with warm air. I haven't tried it in a larger space, but since it so easily heats the air in my bedroom, I'm assuming it's capable of something larger as well.
The number one concern with a space heater is safety. After running this unit on high for a few hours, the plastic body was still cool to the touch. Of course the metal face plate where the heat is discharged gets quite hot, but it changes to a glowing red color, so you don't accidentally touch it.
Use an extension cord at your own risk. Holmes doesn't recommend it, but since the supplied cord is only a few feet, you basically have no choice unless you want it really close to the wall (also not a good idea). It draws about 1500 watts, so you'll want a very heavy duty extension cord rating 1875 watts or better, 14 gauge or less. I picked one up specifically to use with this heater and it DOES get warm after a while. The extension cord wasn't dangerously hot or anything, but its temperature did begin to rise slightly.
Basically, you just need to be sensible: don't leave the heater running unattended, don't run the cord under carpet, unplug the unit from the wall when it's not in use, don't try to use a conventional household extension cord, don't plug anything else into the outlet that you use for this, etc. etc. - standard stuff. This applies for any space heater, of course.
It has an auto-shutdown feature if its tipped over or becomes too hot. Again, you just need to be sensible and not use it by flammable materials or around children. I chose this unit specifically for its excellent safety features, so based on my research on what's currently available at Target/WalMart/Etc. in the $30-100 range, I'm confident that, if used correctly, this is a good bet for safe, effective heating.
There is a thermostat built in with a variety of settings. It has five levels between 60 and 80 degrees, with each available in both "high" and "low". It also has a general "always on" mode where you can set it on high or on low. I'm a bit skeptical as to the efficacy of the thermostat. For a $30-40 unit, I wouldn't expect anything super-precise or anything. It's very general from what I can tell.
I can definitely recommend this to anyone wanted to efficiently heat anything around 10x14 or so. Again, it probably works in a bigger area, but I haven't tried it. Be safe and enjoy.