ID: B000XRQ2QQ-R36H04A13VHMG4-A34WLZI7TZ23RJ
Category: MP3Players
Product: ibiza-Rhapsody-H1A030P-Player-Haier
ReviewerID: A34WLZI7TZ23RJ
ReviewerName: Matthew E. Hanis
Date: November 14, 2009
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 2.0
Title: Great Idea, Terrible Quality and Customer Service
Content:
After 18 months of struggling to derive value from the device, I give up.  I have been through three units, invested 20+ hours with customer service but have not been able to get the device to consistently work.
The features of the device are extremely appealing.  I most appreciated the ability to download music from Rhapsody to take it "On the Go" and the storage capacity of the device.  Sound quality is great.  The User Interface is reasonably good and the battery life satisfying.  When it works, it rocks.
I primarily used the device in conjunction with my Rhapsody account.  The concept is brilliant.  I pay a monthly subscription and am able to enjoy almost any music (pop, rock, jazz, classical, etc) I want.  A killer deal and great customer experience.  The Ibiza Rhapsody takes the idea "On the Go" which is awesome.
Unfortunately, the product appears to have serious quality problems.  These include issues with hardware, software, and Rhapsody software interface.
First unit
Given to me as a gift in early May 2008.  When I set the unit up, I followed the instructions to "get an update" through the device wirelessly.  The device never worked again.  Black screen of death.  I called Customer Service and, after about 2 hours of interaction, was told to return the unit to Amazon.
Second Unit
I purchased a new unit after returning the first.  It took a few weeks to get it going.  Once it was working, it was great.  About once a month, the unit would crash for some reason.  I would call customer service and find yet a new way to resolve the issue.  Each crash was due to some other issue ranging from updates to Rhapsody, a mysterious sequence of key pushes, and two different "reset" techniques.
Third Unit
Towards the end of my first year of ownership, the unit simply crashed.  Black screen of death again.  I spent four hours one day with customer service.  I was told I would receive a call back.  No call back.  Another two hour call and I received the option to return the device for a refund or receive a replacement.  I naively agreed to the replacement.  
Three months later, after three check in calls, I learned that the unit was out of stock.  I was offered a different colored unit (white) which was fine with me.  The third unit never get off the ground.  A new Red Screen of death appeared which had four options, all of which generated the same result.
I realized the trap: after lengthy delays on the part of Haier, i was now out of my warranty period.  Nice.
My initial Customer Service agent acknowledged the concern and agreed to seek a refund.  I was told I would receive a call back.  Two weeks later, after no call back, I called again.
This time Customer Service appeared to be run by company called AmTrust, I was told I was now out of the warranty period and could pay for a replacement.  I repeatedly asked to speak to a Supervisor.  I was hung up on three times.  The fourth time, I spoke to an agent who was brutally gruff.  After a lengthy conversation, he passed me to a stern supervisor.  
I tried reasoning with him and was told, "I will talk to the higher ups at Haier, but they will do nothing for you.  You may pay for a replacement."
I have now written to three management team members at Haier and at RealNetworks.  Hopefully they will resolve the issue reasonably.  I will leave an update in 2 weeks with the outcome and with my recommendation of an alternate product.
UPDATE FROM 1/20/2010:  Received full refund from Haier.  It took a while, but we were able to resolve this issue.