ID: B000BK393Y-R33UMF2F6CXZCR-A1GNSLNCXXG2HE
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Evolt-E500-Digital-Body
ReviewerID: A1GNSLNCXXG2HE
ReviewerName: R. A Gibson
Date: February 17, 2006
Helpful: 31 of 31
Rating: 5.0
Title: What's not to love?
Content:
Olympus got this camera right.  Great 4/3rds sensor takes crisp, beautiful shots edge to edge.  You have beginner options in the umpteen shooting modes available (check out high key and low key, they're wonderful).  You can save to Compactflash AND/OR XD picture card (you're not going to run out of room on a shoot provided the cards are large enough).  You have advanced options like using the Adobe RGB color space.  Menus are intuitive and smart.  Options you'll reference often either have their own button or are at the top of the menu stack.  Autofocus works very well in all but the poorest lighting conditions.  I've taken portraits, landscapes, sports photos, macros, indoor and outdoor and been satisfied with them all.  Olympus's decision to bundle the body with the two lenses (admittedly Zuiko's lower end stuff... the 14-45mm & the 40-150) gets you a setup you can use for nearly every situation from the get go (Note: an affordable 18-180mm has been released, demand is high and everyone has this lens backordered).  You can shoot at varying qualities, but I've grown accustomed to Camera Raw which this camera supports.  RAW gives you so much more flexibility in correcting your shots after the fact.  Battery life is better than point and shoots because the LCD is NOT used to compose the shot.  You use the viewfinder, as is the case with all dSLRs except for the soon to be released E-330 (April 1, 2006).  Bottom line, I've taken 4000 photos with this camera since late November and I don't have a single complaint.  I use the camera 3-4 times a week and I'll confess if something happened to it now, I'd need therapy.  So if you're sitting on the fence about purchasing this camera, you need not be.  Go ahead, spend the rent money (just a joke Moms, no letters please) and have a blast with a great camera.  After all, what's not to love?