ID: B000GTR2F6-R2XAQZW9M58OIC-A2JN7X1BUP5ZRT
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Platinum-Single-Cup-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: A2JN7X1BUP5ZRT
ReviewerName: Chris Brown "christinambrown5"
Date: February 27, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: A fabulous way to make coffee
Content:
Let me start by saying that I am not a big coffee drinker.  I drink more now that I own a B70 - a Christmas gift from my coffee-holic parents.  I used to drink about 2 cups a day, it is now more than that.  I have had the brewer for about a couple of months now, and have found it to be wonderful.
The good: It brews a cup of coffee outrageously fast.  I also use it without a k-cup in it to make hot water and add a tea bag.  Given the opportunity to sample numerous coffees, I have discovered some new brands that I wouldn't have ventured to try previously.  I have had no problems with malfunctioning, and have just made my first cup of coffee with the My K-Cup which allows me to use my own ground coffee in the machine, allowing for use of brands not available in the K-Cup line, and saving me significant cash.  I like a big cup of medium bodied coffee and I like the largest setting on this machine - larger than that found on the other machines in the series.  I will admit that I am cheap.
The bad:  K-Cups are not cheap.  If you are drinking this coffee in lieu of stopping at the shop for cup, then you will save cash.  If you are drinking it in lieu of the old fashioned home-brewed cup, expect it to ring in around 50 cents a cup.  Also, unless you order on the internet, the k-cups can be difficult to find.  Macy's and Target have a limited selection on hand and I have often driven to several stores to find Caribou, which is my absolute favorite.  It is somewhat noisy when the water is being pumped into the chamber from the reservoir.  Less so when the water reservoir is full.  The largest cup size will use up the water in the reservoir at a fairly fast rate, requiring frequent refills.  The K-Cup works well, but does not make as strong a cup of joe as my french press, but then the coffee is not percolating, is it?  
Overall, I am extremely satisfied with this machine, and am hopeful that in experimenting with new coffees and grinds, I will find one that makes a good, flavorful cup of joe using the My K-Cup attachment.