ID: B000GTR2F6-R30NIYEAW3I1FG-APDEEXY0YMU9V
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Platinum-Single-Cup-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: APDEEXY0YMU9V
ReviewerName: Sam J. Katz "Sam J. Katz"
Date: November 4, 2007
Helpful: 13 of 15
Rating: 3.0
Title: OK experience
Content:
I purchased this product because I wanted to cut the amount of coffee I drink back to one cup each day.  What better way to do that than to brew just one great cup at a time?
My experience with the Keurig B-70 has been OK.  The machine is attractive (though the eerie blue light takes a little getting used to), functional, and easy to use and to clean.  It brews rapidly and without too much noise.  Other reviewers have mentioned that the settings for larger mugs brew a weaker cup of coffee.  This is true, and unfortunate; the weakness is clear even with a slightly larger-sized kitchen mug.  The coffee is also not as hot as I would have imagined, though it is certainly hot enough.
A few downsides to my experience:
- The previous reviewer who suggested that the reusable filter should be included in the cost of this expensive machine is right.  A reusable filter is much better for the environment than a K-cup, and gives this machine a desirable flexiblity.
- The Amazon description does not specify that the machine includes a sampler package of K-cups.  No need to buy a bunch to use right away.
- One morning, the machine appeared to function normally but the cup it brewed was absolutely full of grinds.  I chalked it up to a faulty K-cup and brewed a replacement mug, which was fine. A waste of a K-cup, though.
- On another morning, the machine brewed a cup that was only half full. I tried again and this time the machine thought it had brewed a cup but no coffee had come out at all.  Both problems seemed to be caused by the water receptacle, which was not locked into place, though the machine indicated "ready to brew."  I was afraid I had gotten a lemon of a machine, but I think they haven't gotten all the kinks worked out yet.  For $199, I'd hope for more consistent reliability.