ID: B00005YXZB-R3CTUEF5SI2I7Q-A3FVYYLU70FYXD
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Zelco-Brisk-Brew-Travel-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3FVYYLU70FYXD
ReviewerName: cupajoe
Date: May 27, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Switch works the way it's supposed to work.
Content:
I saw so many complaints about the switch I felt obligated to respond. 
The on-off "switch" is not an on-off switch. It's only an ON switch. Let me explain how it works.
Once all the water has brewed away and the reservoir is empty, the heating element is still ON. It remains ON until it "overheats". Without water flowing past it, it will overheat in about 30 seconds. At that time the heater's internal temperature switch clicks OFF, disconnecting the power. The heater and the lamp go out. This is a simple design. It's safe and effective.
That internal switch is a bi-metal switch. A thin piece of metal bends when heated. At some factory-set temperature it bends far enough to disconnect the power. 
That heater unit and it's bi-metal switch eventually cools off. Once it cools enough, you could then press the "ON" button and the internal switch will reactivate the heater unit. That bi-metal switch needs to be reset by YOU pressing the button.
If it hasn't cooled enough, the internal switch won't allow you to turn the power back on. It'll just go off again. The lamp won't stay on.
--------
I just got this coffee maker for $2.99, complete, at a thrift store and didn't know what it was. I haven't had a lot of time to play with it.. but if left to cool by itself, it can take about 4 or more minutes to cool off enough to allow you to reset it. 
But if you pour another batch of cool water in the reservoir the unit cools in less than 20 seconds. Then press the button and it will go on and brew, and stay ON until you unplug it OR it switches itself off.
-------
So, the unit shuts itself off, which is nice and safe. Then (once it's cooled) press the button to turn it on again. 
..now I'm off to wash this thing and try different amounts and grinds of coffee to see what works for me.. And btw if anyone demands a strong cup while traveling, check out the Handpresso.. I own one and it's a 5-star imho.