ID: B000CRZCPO-R35A9ET659PEOG-A5KMMY627T3W
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-200mm-3-5-5-6G
ReviewerID: A5KMMY627T3W
ReviewerName: Kate Stokes
Date: December 12, 2008
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Instant Classic
Content:
I will be very, very surprised if this camera does not end up becoming something of an early DLSR classic a decade or so from now. I have a feeling that like the Canon 30D and 5D this camera will continue to hold value very well even as similar vintage models have lost most of theirs.
If I had to sum up this camera in one word it would this one: exposure. Exposure is arguably the most important factor in judging the quality of a photo. It is certainly one of the most important if not the most important. This camera has an amazingly great talent at picking the correct exposure. There are countless sites that explain the technical reasons behind this that you are welcome to go and seek out, but I don't want this review to be 3 pages long so I will forgo detailing them again here. Bottom line, you can't ask for anything more in this regard from this camera. You will get shots with this camera that you would have lost with the D40, D50, D60, D70, D80 and D90 due to incorrect exposure. Of course if you had the time, ability, and equipment you could spend 10-15 on each shot to make sure you manually set everything correctly to get that perfect exposure. Most of us don't have the time, however, or don't want to spend the time (and the $300 for a good light meter) so it is a joy to work with a camera like this. The D40-D90s get exposure right too of course, just not as often as the D200 does.
Low-light performance: I feel like I have to start including this in my camera reviews now since everyone seems to care about this much more than they did just 2-3 years ago. Bottom line, it's real simple: this is not a low-light performer. You know what? I could care less! If I need low-light performance I'll grab a 5D or a D3. Honestly, even when I had a 5D I rarely, rarely ever shot at ISO 800 or higher. ISO 100-400 is how I roll. You know what? The D200 is awesome at ISO 100 through ISO 400! No problem here for me. ISO 800 and ISO 1600 are not good. I would have a very hard time selling a photo made at these levels and an equally hard time making a print larger than 5x7. Again, to me this is not slight. I didn't buy the D200 for low-light performance and you shouldn't either. If you need to shoot at ISO 800 and up then you need to get a faster lens, an external flash, or better yet both. 
IQ more generally: saturation, contrast, color and clarity are great with this sensor, again as long as you keep the ISO to 400 and lower. At ISO 800 the sensor goes from Dr. Jekyll to Mr. Hyde. Not only do you get a huge mess of noise that renders the pictures mostly unusable, but everything else (except clarity and sharpness) seems to suffer, too. 
Ergonomics: outstanding. I love the ergonomics on the D50 through D700 models. The location of the buttons is also typically Nikon in its intelligence.
Pop up flash: don't ever use it unless it is an emergency. this goes for every other DLSR pop-up flash, too. They are a joke. Either don't use it or buy an external flash. I don't know of a serious photographer who would use a built-in flash on a DLSR unless it was an emergency and not using the flash meant getting no picture at all (i.e. it's 3:00AM and you are witnessing breaking news).
Battery life: this may be the one downside to this camera. It is not the best. You will probably want to buy an extra battery. This is one of the worst when it comes to DLSRs I have used over the years. I don't know what accounts for this but thankfully Nikon ironed it out with every DLSR made after the D200.
I could talk some more but it would be superfluous at this point I guess given that this camera has already been exhaustively reviewed by people much more capable and knowledgeable than I. Bottom line, this is the Pro-Sumer DLSR at this price point. At this price point, you can not buy another better DLSR. If you have $200 more dollars I would probably go with the D90, however. I do think it is worth the extra money. That being said, this is a classic and the fact that 3 years later (a generation in DLSR years) Nikon made the D90 and it came out slightly better does not in any way take away from the greatness of this camera. I mention it merely because the D90 is a current Nikon offering priced not too far above this one and I do believe it is slightly superior in most ways except the exposure. If you are on a budget and need a pro-sumer grade DLSR then this is the one.
This is one of those rare 5 star products that you can instantly disregard all 4 star and under reviews for. If a reviewer gave this 4 stars or less then they do not know what they are talking about or they simply bought the wrong camera for their needs. At the time of writing this review, only 16 out of 138 reviewers gave this anything less than 5 stars. That's right: 122 out of 138 reviewers gave this camera 5 stars. If this isn't a clear consensus then I don't understand the definition of the word consensus. Sorry, but it's not a matter of opinion--the people have spoken. This is a clear cut 5 star camera.