ID: B000V5P90K-R2Q7RKGS71DI6M-AHGE3HTCK931Q
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-40D-10-1MP-Digital-Body
ReviewerID: AHGE3HTCK931Q
ReviewerName: Denis J. EVANS
Date: October 1, 2007
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: solid camera
Content:
I will not try to summarize the many tech reviews of this camera.  There are plenty of highly competent websites to visit for this info.
Firstly, cameras are personal and this camera just feels great in the hand. It is complex to use every facility but to take competent shots is easy.
I said I would never buy a DSLR without serious dust removal/masking facilities.  I have owned this camera for a month and no dust problems so far,  Eventually it will need to be cleaned professionally either by me or someone else - that is a fact of DSLR life.  But serious congratulations to Canon for addressing the problem head on.
So how does it work.  Well the beast is simply superb.  It's like a marriage - it takes a while to meld - same here - after a month we are still learning how to do things better together.  But so far everything is working as well or better than could have possibly been expected.  And considering the hype surrounding this camera that involves very high expectations.
A further comment:  this imager is so good that you need very good lenses to see its best. I'm afraid both kit lenses fail this camera miserably.  It's not that they are so bad, rather that this camera is so good. I expected this.
Now I have to fork out for an EOS 70- 200mm IS USM, to really see what this camera can do.  The kit 17- 85 USM is not so good at the wide end.  That is not the camera's fault.  You can see what this camera can do by looking at the long end of the 17 - 85mm.
Life is full of compromises.  The best camera/lens would take great photos but would be so heavy, you couldn't lift the kit up a mountain.  The 40D is hikable (just):
 [...] 
shows some 40D images taken very far up (2605m)  a mountain. Now I've gotta pull the 70-200 f4 up the same mountains! Ugh!