ID: B00007KDX5-R97EWKL86XN83-A1VN3711T91WO9
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-Jukebox-Multimedia-Handheld-Entertainment
ReviewerID: A1VN3711T91WO9
ReviewerName: Darren P Madams
Date: January 15, 2004
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good, but could be so much better
Content:
Face it, if you ended up at this product you've already seen every variation of the MP3 player/recorder concept.  What Archos has here is a nice little machine that does everything you'll want it to reasonably well.  It doesn't have the sophistication or elegance of an iPod, but frankly it does a whole lot more for a WHOLE lot less money.  The video feature is surprisingly usable, and definitely a good addition.You should consider the Archos Multimedia if you:o Need more storage space than flash-based or built-in memory devices provide.  If you honestly start archiving your CD collection, you WILL quickly use up 20gigs.  Yes you can always archive on your computer and fill up your MP3 player before you leave, but that's a hassle even with good synchronization software.o Want to watch a movie every now and then.  Perfect for a 3 hour flight, or a TV episode on that 30 minute bus or tube ride, or for avoiding pay-per-view movies in hotels.  If you want more of a movie experience, or have bad eyes, or don't want to deal with having to convert videos into Archos (smaller) format then just buy a portable DVD player.  That gets the job done.o Don't want/need the big screen and bigger prices of the newer AV series.  Nice as they are, I simply wouldn't use it, and I like how portably this one is.o Want a good storage place for digital pictures.  This device can act as a regular hard-drive just by plugging it in to your computer.  It also has an optional memory-card reader which makes it GREAT for dumping your camera memory cards when on a long trip (there are seperate $400 devices for this purpose).  You can display pictures (and the video actually) on a normal TV using the included RCA cables... very nice!o Don't mind quirky firmware or spotty tech support.  Archos is famous for releasing buggy firmware, and their tech support is kind of a hit or miss thing.  The build quality is not excellent, but it is a pretty robust machine.  Hopefully the Rockbox folks will have an open-source firmware for this model soon.Some gotchas:o The camera module is not that great, but the memory-card readers are excellent!o The DVR module (to record video using an analog input) I've heard is basically useless.  I don't have it, I just convert already digital video files into Archos' format.o USB2.0 or Firewire connection is done by an extra cable that may or may not be included, and they're expensive purchased seperately.o Battery life is reasonable, but not great.  I get honestly about 2-3 hours playing video (one movie) and 5-6 playing MP3s.  If I need more, I bring the AC adapter or car DC adapter (not included).o Included case doesn't really hold much.  It's OK, and does a decent job of protecting the device, but it won't hold the included headphones or any of the cables and the charger.  Just another expense to consider.In conclusion, I really like my AJBMM, but it could be so much better than it is just by fixing a few little things.  For the price you really can't go wrong.