ID: B000JNLDVI-R1E39HE5OXM46U-A3KCQOWEO7J527
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Q-Mark-HBB1254-Hydronic-Baseboard-Heater
ReviewerID: A3KCQOWEO7J527
ReviewerName: Que Tal Carolyn "Sister Carolina"
Date: December 21, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good heater; installation a pain
Content:
The heater itself seems well-made and runs well and heats nicely. It's quiet and retains heat. We replaced an older hydronic unit that died, and this is working well so far.
One big advantage to this unit if you are replacing an old one is the fact that this one can be wired from either the left or right end -- wherever the wire already is. This was probably the biggest selling point for this heater, as we were replacing an old Isotherm (now Cadet) that was wired on the right -- the new Cadets are wired only on the left and we didn't want to have to deal with the complication.
The color is called "Navajo White" and the pictures look fairly white. In reality, the color is more of a light taupe. This was fine for our decor, but don't expect a true white or even an off-white.
When ordering, note that you must also order a thermostat -- there are ones that go on the end of the unit, ones that go on the wall, and ones that go on the wall and will control several baseboard heaters in one room. If you are replacing an existing heater and don't want to either fish wires or do drywall work, be sure to get the type that goes on the end of the unit. Whatever type you get, you must install the thermostat yourself -- it does not come pre-installed.
I'll preface my installation comments by saying that we are typical homeowners, not contractors or otherwise in the building trades. It was the first time my husband did a project like this, but he's reasonably handy. First off, the installation instructions that are included are hard to follow -- they assume a level of expertise we didn't have. However, on the QMark (Marley) web site, if you go to Heaters/HBB Baseboard Heaters, they have a much better .pdf file with photos of all the wiring. It still isn't perfect, but it's a lot better. My husband also commented that calling the junction box "roomy" is a matter of opinion, and while he found it tight, it was sufficient.
The biggest problem is mounting the unit to the wall. You must drill through the back of the heater (the holes are not predrilled) and then screw the heater to the wall (into studs). It's hard to do this without bending the fins on the heater (it's not catastrophic, but better for heat distribution if they're not bent). As every installation is somewhat different, screws are not included -- depending on your application, you may need screws, molly bolts, masonry screws or something else. Be sure to get these before starting the installation.
Also note that you'll need several wire nuts -- you can get them while waiting for the shipment. You need at least two of the type for connecting 2 wires.
It took Dave about 5 hours to install the heater, from unboxing it and removing the old heater to having the new one heating the room. He used a thermostat that went right on the heater. Admittedly, his total time included just under an hour to go buy some wire nuts. If you are more experienced in this type of project, it would probably take less time.
Overall, we're happy with the heater and would buy it again.