ID: B0007QKMQY-R2PNSBR2VPH8DK-A3USS4O0RQZ37K
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-f3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A3USS4O0RQZ37K
ReviewerName: J. A Carty "Jessie Carty"
Date: August 8, 2007
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: Simply In Love with this Camera!
Content:
This is my 4th digital camera and is by far my favorite. I tried the simple in your pocket digital camera which is great and a smaller somewhat SLR camera that was also nice but there is just something about the heft of a real SLR camera and the joy of lenses etc.
I almost didn't buy this camera w/ the 18-55 lens becuase I have several lenses already from my Canon film SLR, but I am glad I went with the lens on this unit. It has a terrific range and may save me from having to take a bunch of lenses with me on vacation. Speaking of lenses: I have two Canon lenses and 1 Sigma that I used w/ my film SLR w/ no issues. At first I was very worried when I got this camera b/c all the research said my old lenses would work, however, I was having trouble getting them to go on. The film lenses have metal mountings whereas the digital has plastic mountings, this meant--for me at least--that I had to get them on by very specifically placing the openings. Once you get the hang of it-it is ok, but warning that you won't be switching the lenses off and on as quickly as you might be used to. That being said the included lens is AMAZING!
Another note about lenses because I found this out shortly before purchasing. Your old lenses most likely will not be as accurate as their numbers say. The digital will read them at about a 1.6 focal length difference which is great for a telescopic lens as it will make it have a wider range, for a macro however it pretty much defeats its usage. You can look up more details about how the numbers work online.
Good POINTS:
Camera is quiet. Takes pictures well inside and out. Battery life is great, I have yet to charge mine. It accepts my old mini-tripod and shutter release from my film SLR. The setting variety is great, especially the bracketing feature--I leave mine on that or on the TV setting for when I want to pick it up and take a quick picture. Comes with a nice manual and pocket manual. Pictures printed from not even the highest setting on this camera at 8 x 10 were frameable.
Lower POINTS:
Finding the setting for black and white was a bit difficult. It takes getting used to having a larger camera again after carrying a small one.
This is a great camera though. And for everyone who says you need the 10MP XTI, don't listen. If you are just an average camera enthusiast who will use this around the house and on vacation this is plenty for showing off good pictures and getting quality prints.