ID: B000VDQ38E-R2GHA9KH7MI8AY-A3N1CQZGDK126Z
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A3N1CQZGDK126Z
ReviewerName: Itsmeagain!
Date: April 5, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 3.0
Title: Does an excellent job cleaning.
Content:
This vacuum cleaner has plenty of power to pick up dust and debris and the pet hair pickup features work quite well.  It makes some noise, but I don't really care about the noise since it cleans effectively.  I just put on my headset and listen to my MP3 player. It is also a little heavy, but again, this is offset by the good job it does of cleaning.  The attachments also work as advertised and are nicely stored on the machine.  The washable main filter means I do not have to frequently buy replacement filters.  I wish the HEPA filter was also user washable, but it has to be replaced when dirty, and is more expensive than it should be in my opinion.  I only gave it three stars because of factors other than its cleaning abilities.  First; emptying the dirt cup is a messy affair if it gets a little too full and best done outside.  After emptying the cup you might have to vacuum the vacuum cleaner and the area around it.  Second; the entire outside of this machine is a dust magnet.  The black and clear plastic of this machine seem designed to easily show dust, and the entire machine quickly becomes coated.  Vacuuming the machine off followed by wiping down with a damp cloth is required to get the dust off, but that is easier said than done.  The machine has so many crooks and crevices that wiping it down is a difficult and time consuming job.  Once I clean house, I must set aside a good portion of time to clean the cleaner!  This might not be such a problem in some parts of the country, but in west Texas we have very dusty conditions, so dust can be a real problem in the house and on the vacuum.  If Bissell had given this vacuum cleaner a more streamlined design it would be easier to clean.  As it is now, I keep my filthy looking vacuum cleaner well hidden from friends and family.  Not that I don't clean it, but it still looks dirty after being cleaned!  I had an all metal upright before I got this one.  I think it was made in the 50's and it worked well, just needed an occassional belt change, and had a bag that was thrown out when it became full, and no filters to clean or change, the bag served as the filter and replacement bags are still available!  It was much cleaner to just change the dust bag, and the chromed metal surface never looked dirty like this one does.  I gave it to charity, and replaced it with this one because the old one did not have attachments.  ADDED: After using this machine for several sessions, the filter indicater showed black, indicating a clog.  After checking it over and finding no clog in the hose I had to remove the cyclone and clean it.  It is not that hard to remove following the instructions, but takes a few minutes and is messy.  It was matted all around with dog hair.