ID: B0009HNH2M-R3UICWM95OS771-A27K8JQF9T9GZA
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3590-Nozzle-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A27K8JQF9T9GZA
ReviewerName: Kimberly White "budget shopper"
Date: August 30, 2007
Helpful: 13 of 13
Rating: 5.0
Title: Extremely powerful, durable. But make sure a canister is right for you before buying!
Content:
We have had our Duros for over two years now. We got it originally because we had bedbugs and getting rid of them requires a lot of powerful vacuuming. Well, we got rid of all our bedbugs and two years later we're still happy with it. 
Canister vs. Upright:  We went with a canister vacuum over an upright because they are just more powerful. And in my experience, much easier to push across the floor because when you push the main cleaning head, you're leaving the heavy engine and the bag behind. All you have to push is the rotating brush head or whatever attachment you're using. You do sort of have to lug the canister around behind you as you finish an area, which is sometimes a pain. And the canister types are bulkier and more difficult to store, if you have limited closet space. But overall, as a mother of 4 who has used both kinds, I prefer the canister types.
Duros vs. other models: We picked the Duros because we wanted a good reliable maker. In two years of heavy use we have never had a mechanical problem (except that the rubber bumper pad keeps coming off). Also, we wanted the rotating brush head. It does make the head heavier than in some other canister models, and minimizes that advantage a little bit, but it really does help clean better. Ours has always worked fine and they've made it really easy to turn the brush off and on-- one foot button and a thumb button so you can use whichever you prefer or is convenient at a given time.
Best part: The super-powerful suction. Once time I noticed it losing power and I thought it was nearing the end of its vacuum life. Well, it turned out it had a sock AND a piece of upholstery foam stuck in the hose. Yet it was continuing to pick up dirt, dust, cat hair, paper, and even a pen, just a bit less energetically than usual. I tell you, it's a good thing this has adjustable suction, because some places in my house I have to turn it DOWN or it will pick up the entire rug and/or anything in its path that would certainly have been left behind by a lesser vacuum.
Canister-type vacuums may not be right for you, but I hate seeing this one badly reviewed just because of people not liking canisters.  If you want a canister, I have not found any reasons not to be delighted with this one!