ID: B0000X7CMQ-R1XD7KMPM3H6J6-A2BXO3H7KQO4SD
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Zojirushi-EC-BD15-Thermal-Carafe-Coffee
ReviewerID: A2BXO3H7KQO4SD
ReviewerName: N. E. Oakley
Date: August 29, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Perfectly good coffeemaker
Content:
I awaited the arrival of my Zojirushi coffee maker with a little trepidation after reading some of the reviews. While the majority of reviews gave it either four or five stars, some were scathing and made me worry that the machine was a piece of, er, junk. If I could, I would give the unit four and a half stars. This is my experience so far (after opening the box and making two pots of coffee with it). I'll update later as needed. First, let's get this out of the way: the filter basket IS a little shallow. It works with a number 4 filter, but it does make you yearn for the mythical number 3 size. Now for other concerns raised by some reviewers. 1) I found that the machine makes a nice, hot (and strong enough) pot of coffee. I use a rounded scoop, which I believe to be two tablespoons, for every two cups, or a lightly rounded tablespoon per cup, of medium ground coffee, and it comes out fine. Would I like it a smidge hotter? Perhaps. I made the coffee by first pouring the hottest tap water I could get into the carafe, then closing the carafe and letting it sit while I filled the water reservoir. This I did using filtered cold water from a jug in the fridge. I find this easier than filling the carafe and using it to fill the reservoir. Since there is a window on the unit that shows you exactly the number of cups you've added, it is very easy to add, say, four cups or six cups to make a smaller pot. 2) The small cap that helps keep the coffee hot is pretty intuitive, though I can see how it could get lost. The thing is, while you CAN put the carafe in to brew with the cap on, to do so you would have to jam it in place. You remove it to brew and add it afterward. 3) I found that it is best to orient the machine sideways so the on/off button is readily accessed. You can put the carafe in sideways, so the handle faces forward. A quick glance (and a sort of "snick" when it falls into place) will let you know it's aligned. So I'm not sure why some people are having coffee pouring over the counter. 4) The "showerhead" is also pretty intuitive. You move it to one side to fill the grounds in the filter basket, and you move it to the other side to fill the reservoir. AND, here's the thing: If you don't move it back in place yourself, the lid makes it slide into place when you close it. Simple. I'm not sure how you could brew a pot with the showerhead out of place. It seems virtually impossible to me. 5) The carafe does a great job of keeping the coffee hot, but I absolutely recommend preheating it in advance. I made the first pot in the evening around 7:00; the next morning it was still quite hot, twelve hours later (hot enough that when I poured a cup, I started to drink it even though I planned to make a fresh pot. Now: That was a virtually full pot; with less coffee in the carafe, it may not stay as hot as long. 6) I have had no problems with overtightening the carafe lid. Basically, I spin it closed and let it stay where it lands. These are my experiences and impressions so far. Once I've used the machine for a while, I will update if my impressions change.