ID: B000CS7UEY-R1WOMNGU9A6MLG-A1M02BIJINGWOB
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Zen-Vision-Video-Player
ReviewerID: A1M02BIJINGWOB
ReviewerName: Kathleen
Date: May 5, 2006
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: The real shipping only takes one day; so don't be frustrated, it will arrive soon!
Content:
More than one month after ordering, Zen arrived yesterday. It doesn't disappoint me even though I was a little bit worried about its thickness. The size is perfect, the weight is perfect and the FEEL is perfect! The white Zen is very good looking!
I transferred all audio/video files I was having access to immediately to Zen. All audio files were taken without a problem, so were most videos. Several video files were, as the Zen told me, out of its playing capability but can be converted with a couple of clicks -- the converting time is a little bit long maybe because I picked the "best-quality-longest-time" mode and I was notoriously impatient, :). The image quality is amazing! So colorful and fine-grained. The sound is awesome too. FM works nicely - I'm listening to it right now after having watched all the videos on Zen.
The battery charging is fast, less than 2 hours for a full charge. It's still running with more than 60% left after about 2 hour of video playing, 3 hour of mp3 and more than one hour of radio in addition to half an hour of recording and countless menu operations.
The microphone gave me some hard time, though I think it will be better after I get more used to its buttons and touch pad. 
I only installed the simplest media explorer. Maybe that's the reason I can't drag and drop files between two Zen folders, even though dragging and dropping between Zen and computer are smooth.
The acompanying pouch is cute, however I still want to buy an armband pouch. Then I can enjoy the music whenever I want, even on a treadmill.
Two more little nice things to say about Zen:
-The blue screensaver LED can work as an illumilator in the dark, tiny but better than nothing, eh?
-The screen can be used as a mirror once the screen saver is on.
All in all, I'm very happy with my Zen.