ID: B000G1DAKA-R3CU80P46NE6JI-ASOWHVHQXQWEA
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-K100D-Digital-Camera-Reduction
ReviewerID: ASOWHVHQXQWEA
ReviewerName: S. Trachtenberg
Date: February 16, 2007
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Terrific for a first DSLR.
Content:
I purchased this camera about two months ago. Since then I have taken about 500 shots, mostly indoors. I was scared by most reviews stating less then adequate battery life but I have had no problem and just now changed to a freshly charged set of NiMh (2500mah) batteries. True, few utilized the flash but I am very happy with the quantity. The pictures have been great. Very sharp images with very high resolution. Color has been true. I have taken a lot of indoor volleyball shots and the point that the ball is hit by the player has been sharp as well. A lot better after switching off anti-shake (which I'm sure works but I haven't gotten that far yet).
Quickly reviewing shots is a snap as the feature has it's own button on the rear. This way no movement of the main selector is necessary. Also the function (fn) button has some pre-set functions that are easy to find. One being the shutter release functions. Just pressing this button and the menu "up" bring you to the 2-second, 12-second, continuous and other settings. 2-second is great for shooting a steady subject with a long lens, shake free. Just tripod mount the camera, set up the shot and go to the 2-second mode. Press and release the shutter button and two seconds later you have the shot, and no vibration from pressing the shutter button.
There are so many more features I love about this camera but I am still learning and maybe I'll review more later. At this point I am very happy with my choice and I think any DSLR novice will be as well.
One last thing about the batteries. Even if the battery life became a problem some day (and I don't think it ever will), at least I can go to most local stores and purchase a pack of double A's to get me through. If I bought a Nikon D-40 for example, I would be stuck as it takes a special battery not sold in a typical store. Keep that in mind.
Good shooting and Good luck.
Steve