ID: B000H845PG-R2O9JQWD29W650-A2R2KLWPQTO1EH
Category: AirConditioners
Product: WA-7500M-500-BTU-Portable-Conditioner-Controls
ReviewerID: A2R2KLWPQTO1EH
ReviewerName: Fixup
Date: July 31, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: For what it is, I give it 5 stars
Content:
In comparison, my 500W window AC runs cooler, but this 620W portable is so much more convenient. In my area, we need an AC only for few days a year; it was a pain to mount/unmount the window AC in summer/winter. So this one is perfect here, just plug it to the power and window and we have a good night of sleep.
It uses only 620W (300W less energy consumption than other portable ACs in this class), so we set it to the lowest temperature and let it cool continuously. The noise level is acceptable; we place it on upstairs and can barely hear it downstairs. Ran it for 24 hours and no need to drain water. In case the light says the tank is full, don't drain the water too much as the water tank is used to cool down the machine for better efficiency. I also cover the hot hose with thick cloth.
During a heat wave, we start it in the morning with all windows closed and it keeps our house to 87F while the outside is 105F. Without this AC, temperature would be 91F even at downstairs, too high to stay with and upstairs would be simply baking. 87F is OK, especially for a day or two only. After the sun goes down, we still leave it on but open all the windows. This helps hugely on a heat wave in a otherwise cool area like Oregon vally. Hard to live without it. However, I think it is useless in a hot area like Texas.
The window mounting kit was missing, called SPT and a gentaman told me it would arrive in 3-5 days. What a customer support! While I'm waiting for the kit, I simply cut a hole on a small flat box and it works like a charm.
Unless your wife is a neat freak who asks you to unmount a window AC every winter, then don't buy a portable AC. The latter is significantly less cool than the former. But if you're as lucky as me and your area is not hot enough to worth a central AC, then you'd better get this.