ID: B000HAVWQE-R2NBAJHBNIV5CX-A3PMRBBDDG2Q6M
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-Ultraslim-Portable-Recorder-500860
ReviewerID: A3PMRBBDDG2Q6M
ReviewerName: barbandbob "web shoppers"
Date: March 23, 2007
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: The Archos 604 exceeded my expectations
Content:
This is an amazing little product. Bought it here at Amazon (best price plus I had a $25 bonus coupon from using my Amazon credit card). It arrived practically overnight even though I used free shipping. I bought the optional dvr dock to record and the plug-ins at the Archos website so it can play all my movies and clips. A couple of small issues were quickly and efficiently handled by Archos' excellent customer service and sales staff.
First off, the screen quality is perfect. I can very comfortably watch a full length movie on it.  I use it mostly at the gym while I am on the elliptical machine.  Makes an hour go by just like that.   I have recorded from every device imaginable, including my portable 7" DVD player. It hooks right up, you put your DVD in and record it onto the 604 in real time.  Plays back on the 604 flawlessly (but will not play back on a TV when the video is copy protected.) Attaching the 604 via a USB port to my PC, I simply drop in movies files (unprotected), pictures, and music from my PC. It's cool the way you can zoom in on pictures too. You can upload your pictures and then hook it up to play on tv with a nice slide show and your own music in the background. Plays your videos on tv too. Oh, and 30 GB's is more than enough space.  Don't spend the extra money just to get more GB's. I put a full length movie, some clips, a couple of hours of tv, a bunch of hi-res pictures and all my favorite music and the memory hardly decreased at all. This thing would hold 85 movies and why would anyone want to store all that on the player anyway?
The bottom line is this Archos performs like a magician. Takes a bit of patience and looking at the manual to learn all the many features and buttons though but much of it really is intuitive.  The hardest thing was setting up the tv scheduling to record from the tv. 
I could not recommend this product more highly.  They even upgraded the case everyone was complaining about. I am going to carry it in my purse so I am never without it.  Yes it is expensive, and so I wish they would have included the plug-ins and the recording feature as part of the package, but I think it is worth every penny.  I haven't had this much satisfaction (or fun) from an electronic gadget purchase in a very long time.  If you are thinking about buying it and can handle the price (player $309, dvr recorder, $79 and plug-ins, $30 bundled), do it, you won't be sorry!