ID: B0009OR988-RMMW0J9AC421-AZ6D2BR47RARU
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Metropolitan-Professionals-ADM-4SF-4-Horsepower-Vacuum
ReviewerID: AZ6D2BR47RARU
ReviewerName: Laurie d'Ault
Date: January 11, 2009
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: metro vad adm-4sf 11.25 amp 4 HP canister vac
Content:
This is the best vacuum I have ever used!  Don't be stupid like me and get just the basic model, though...make sure you get the power nozzle!!!  I have two cats and a German shepherd...don't know what I was thinking.  This vac is so powerful and amazingly lightweight.  If you live in a house that is shaped like a rocket like I do...all stairs and no depth... you need this vacuum.  I think it does a better job than my daughter's Dyson and the lightweight feature is the whip!  I'm only 5' tall and find it nearly impossible to drag that heavy-butt upright up and down all these stairs, but the metro vac is totally portable and easy to use.  Comes with an arsenal of attachments.  I guess the only disadvantage is the fact that now I have to buy bags again instead of the dirtcup, but now no dust escapes when I empty it like it did with the big upright.  Also, mine, at least, did not come with explicit instructionsregarding what was what, but it is not rocket science.  Plus, they have an extremely helpful customer service department that you can find at their website online...[...]  Did you know that you can use this thing as a powerful leaf and lawn blower as well?  Yeah buddy!  It looks cool, too...like something out of a Flash Gordon movie.  It is all polished stainless steel and it is one of those 50's style bullet-shaped canisters.  And the very best best best thing of all about this thing is that it is completely made in the USA!!!!!!!!!  HOORAY!!! HOORAY!!!!  I almost had a heart attack when I saw it.  Their logo is "deliberately made better in the USA"   Ain't that a fact?  They are located in New York and are run by a family that's been in business since the 30's.  You DO want this vac!  You will not be sorry.