ID: B000I1ZWRW-R2AQIUAG2GBLUO-A2YVAH7RL4HR0O
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-10-1MP-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A2YVAH7RL4HR0O
ReviewerName: CAS
Date: December 14, 2007
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Nice camera, great service from Amazon
Content:
I haven't had much chance to use this, but it was easy to get going and take pictures, and the pictures I have taken look fine.  It is very similar in layout to my Rebel Ti film camera, which I've been happy with and already have a couple of lenses for, so I decided to stick with Canon for a DSLR (and as another bonus, it has the same battery as my Canon camcorder so I already have a spare battery).  The body, while plastic, seems pretty rugged and looks good--much less glossy than my lenses.  I also like the relatively small size as it's easier to lug around, and fits well in my hand with the pinky curled under the bottom.  It's a wee bit thicker and taller than the Ti, but shorter on the left side because it doesn't need to hold a can of film.
Rather than get the cheap 18-55 kit lens, since I already had the 35-80 kit lens from an even older film Rebel, I ordered a nice Sigma 18-50 f/2.8 Macro lens.
Best of all, I ordered this Wednesday morning and Amazon shipped it from Los Angeles the next day and UPS delivered here (San Diego) on Friday.  I paid an extra $8 for standard shipping because Amazon was out of stock on the Sigma lens, which I instead ordered from 47th St through Amazon and had no choice but to pay $15 for "standard" shipping, and I didn't want to get the lens without a camera.  Well, I'm still waiting for the lens a week after the camera arrived.  Even though the total price was $6 less than the Amazon price with free shipping, I would have rather used Amazon because of the better return policy.  And I think that still would have beaten the slow boat from New York.
The only problem with the shipping on these expensive items is that UPS requires a signature--so it actually took a few extra days to get my hands on it since nobody happened to be home.  A better bet would have been to ship it to my workplace.
And--Amazon has dropped the price by $20, and 47th dropped shipping charges by $10, since I ordered.  Oh well, guess it pays to wait until the last minute when shopping before Christmas.