ID: B0000SWAC8-R2AH2GIL4Q8JUZ-A8R9FS1SE1RU8
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL6988D-Oxygen3-Canister-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A8R9FS1SE1RU8
ReviewerName: Aliza's Mom
Date: April 21, 2006
Helpful: 88 of 92
Rating: 2.0
Title: Didn't Last Long
Content:
I researched for a long time before deciding to purchase a vacuum.  I went to the store to buy a Hoover, and came out with this Electrolux after my husband and a store employee convinced me it was a better vacuum.  I got it because of the Electrolux name and the $100 rebate.  Well, from the moment I put it together, I was sceptical of the way the pieces fit together.  When you start the rug attachment, it takes off on you, which is kind of cool.  It also cleans my carpets wonderfully!  I don't like the way the bare floor and other attachments just sit on it instead of attaching securely.  I also find that the bare floor attachment doesn't have much sucking power.  I have also had trouble getting the rug attachment off.  You have to step on something on it, and pull.  For me, it isn't easy, plus it seems as though it will eventually just break off.  A few months ago, the rug attachment wouldn't work and I discovered that a prong that is part of the handle connections was bent. Well a few weeks
ago, it snapped right off and I had to bring it to a repair facility.  Luckily it is still under warranty.  But I have only owned it for about 8 months and I only use it once a week.  It shouldn't be broken already.  They just don't make vacuums as sturdy as they used to be.  We have a very old real Electrolux that was given to us, used, by my husbands parents and it still
works.  Of course it is held together buy a shoestring and lots of duck tape! I also have trouble with the rug attachment sucking up things like the cover for the couch and then shutting off.  It is very powerful so beware.  I still haven't gotten my vacuum back from the repair place, and they told me it might take a while depending on when Electrolux sends them the parts to fix it.  I also have trouble finding the bags for it.  Our old Electrolux, had bags you could find really cheap at any store, but not this one. I would not recommend this vacuum.