ID: B00005M1VF-RUDVRY6BCLQCR-AL31ME7MYI7FI
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-TTG-500-Two-to-Go-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: AL31ME7MYI7FI
ReviewerName: Nicole Niki
Date: September 10, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 3.0
Title: I wish it wouldn't overflow
Content:
Today is September 10th, 2009.  I found the Cuisinart Two-to-Go at a local second hand shop (brand new in its original packaging!!) on the weekend for only $7.99 and felt like I won the lottery!  We are current owners of a Black & Decker One-Cup Brew'n'Go which never gave us any problems but are at a point where one cup of coffee is not enough but more than two would be too many, so this was supposed to be the perfect solution for us.  
First problem:  I am finding the plastic base on the machine that the cups sit on gets far too hot which is unnecessary since the base of the travel mugs are also plastic and as such is not needed as a "hot burner".  This happens even when the coffeemaker is off but still plugged into the electrical socket. I started wondering if this item had been recalled due to an electrical fire hazard or something. 
Second problem:  Today, it started having that "overflow" problem where the water is not going through the drain openings fast enough and then the water that does get through is unevenly distributed between the two cups and I am starting to think, o.k., they discontinued this thing for more than a few reasons, but I really wanted it to be a keeper so I logged onto this site to seek a few solutions, and this is what I found and will do:  
1) I am going to use my husband's drill to make the drain openings a little larger.
2) I will use two very large portable coffee mugs to catch the uneven distribution of water. 
3) I will unplug the unit when out of use to make sure it doesn't catch on fire. 
And, by the way, pressing on that "hard to access" ON button a second time while the machine is running DOES turn the machine OFF.  I think this information should be put out there as well.  Wish me luck!