ID: B0000C8VEK-R1ZA3RBJ3SY63T-A2GGKJ318HO2GE
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-Camera-18-55mm
ReviewerID: A2GGKJ318HO2GE
ReviewerName: Michael Horn "mikie"
Date: June 9, 2005
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: Set the dSLR standard
Content:
One of the first to purchase this camera - I've used it over 22 months and really LIKE my decision. Purchased as a 35mm replacement - I was wary of this - my first Digital Camera. The stock "kit lens" is a more than an adequate performer. Coupled with a Canon "L" series telephoto, a battery grip and a 420EX and 580EX Speedlight that couples nicely with the dRebel - I was in absolute photo heaven!
Rich color - astoundingly sharp pictures and manual controls to handle almost every situation - I've taken this camera around the world two times as a defense contractor. This camera exceeded my expectations in every department except the built in flash - which should be supplanted with the one of the previously mentioned Canon speedlights. These flash units couple seamlessly thru E-TTL on the Canon hotshoe or hotshoe extender cord for stunning flash pictures.
With the purchase of a speedlight bracket - and diffuser hood - I've taken over 3,000 portraits at charity events and have had nary an unsatisfied customer. The BG-1 battery grip allows a second battery to couple with the first - never - never had I had or have to worry about camera power.
Things I'd like to see improve:
1) Tighter sealing on the internals - middle east dust has had to be taken out of portions of the camera I did not know existed. A more expensive and tightly sealed metal framed camera would probably prevent this.
2) A much better pop-up flash unit.
3) A 2.0 USB port - instead of 1.1 for faster computer up and down loading from the camera.
4. Apparently - there is a shutter life limit (determined by picture count) that is NOT covered under warranty - shorter than the more expensive professional series Canon Cameras. May be cause for concern...
My experience with this early model dRebel has been overwhelmingly positive. Have upgraded camera software from the Canon website and avoided problem operations others have experienced. Many improvements have been made in the Rebel XT an 8.0 MP camera - which also deserves a close look. If you want to make the leap from high level 35 SLR to Digital - come and join the fun!