ID: B00009J5W0-RDJJV6DHM618B-A3EPN5BCFFI4BZ
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-White-M8948LL-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A3EPN5BCFFI4BZ
ReviewerName: B. Ong "banachan"
Date: October 26, 2003
Helpful: 24 of 25
Rating: 5.0
Title: Amazing Technology, Practical Utility
Content:
I never bought any Apple hardware products before so I was a bit apprehensive about getting this iPod. The reason I finally made the jump was the groundswell of good opinions from people I trust that were giving rave reviews about iPod, and the fact that I have an explosions of CDs that needed some semblance of order and organization.Well, I have been using the iPod 30GB for 2 weeks now and bottom line is: get it. I am not going to rehash all the common positive things you'll hear in most reviews but the highlights for me for my iPod 30GB were (a) nth degree cool factor; (b) solidly built; (c) great user interface esp. with no visible mechanical moving parts; (d) sheer capacity; (e) optimum size to capacity to weight to price ratio (you'll be hard pressed to find anything close to this at this time); and (f) great charge window per use and battery life per charge.Any downsides? Of course - confusing setup for Windows as I had to go through rounds and rounds of experimentation to get the software to work. There were weird errors all over the place. I also had the latest MusicMatch on my PC so the install croaked big time. I am running Windows 2000 and MusicMatch 8.1. So lessons learned for Windows users: (1) definitely get and use a Firewire card (these are dirt cheap at around $15); (2) download the latest iPod software from apple.com from the outset, forget the CD; (3) use software to restore and reformat the whole iPod; (4)when you already have MusicMatch just have the Apple software attempt the install anyway, it will fail but just ignore it; (5) make sure you are running the latest MusicMatch version and then download the iPod2 plug-in off the MM site. That's it. (Suggestion to Apple - make the install clearer by providing option to break the install process to explicit smaller steps and components).It's not as bad as what it sounds like here. Once you go past the first hurdle, you're all set. I spent a big sum of money on this and it does take some effort to get just right. But what's a few hours of "install pain investment" worth considering that in return, it offers you a lifetime of enjoyment and convenience.Still giving it a 5 despite some cursing on my part during the install. But an hour or two of hassles is still worth it. I love this thing!