ID: B0000X7CMQ-R1SEFL3RORWTCO-A29YG49T39YHM9
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Zojirushi-EC-BD15-Thermal-Carafe-Coffee
ReviewerID: A29YG49T39YHM9
ReviewerName: T. Clemens
Date: December 21, 2006
Helpful: 3 of 6
Rating: 1.0
Title: Coffee cools too quickly
Content:
I was in the market recently for a new coffe maker because my 12-cup Barista from Starbucks was mishandled by a guest and broke. I read reviews on several makers and decided to try this one! The biggest complaint of mine is that the coffee cools down way too fast! I got spoiled by the Barista because my coffee would still be warm after several hours post brewing. This one cools down within a couple of hours. It supposed to be the "Sony" of Japenese coffee makers but I am not quite sure if that's a compliment or not(spy ware on the CDs). I am going to donate this to my church's rummage sale and hopefully someone else can use it.
The lid is very, very difficult for me to open-I usually get a paper towel to assist with opening.  The top of the carafe does have notches but the lid is so thin it's hard to get a good grip if you have average sized hands for a woman. Also, it took me giving the lid a good look to see that the attachment for the lid needs to come off, pull off, in order for the coffee to drip into the pot-understand why some reviewers think that it drips all over the counter.  The lid does need to be lined up as well.
I am not impressed at all and I am very disappointed in the quality of this product! I order from Amazon all the time and I read the reviews and have never been this disappointed in the product I received.  
I went to Starbuck's and bought DeLonghi Thermal for $120-a little more than what I paid for this-noticed this model is on sale at Amazon now and understand why. I paid $105 with shipping and for just $20 more, I am much happier with the quality, ease of use, style etc.
The Zojirushi instructions DO NOT go into detail at all about the little things that have to be done-the lid top, for one. The instructions are very vague.
The Zojirushi is very tall-not a problem for me because my cabinets are 16" above my counter but the DeLonghi is around 1.5 to 2" shorter than this one.  
The Zojirushi is cheap looking and just doesn't even look or perform like what I think it should for the price. Maybe if it was offered for around $45 to $50 it could be considered "OK" for the price. Trust me, spend the few more bucks and get the DeLonghi Thermal.
Don't waste your money! Buy the DeLonghi or perhaps look at the Cuisinart that Williams-Sonoma has(the Cuisinart at Williams-Sonoma is different than any other model that the websites and stores carry.