ID: B00005IBX9-R2FTNFKCIITMDC-
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1200-Central-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: 
ReviewerName: 
Date: February 9, 2004
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 2.0
Title: Poorly designed - I took it back
Content:
Our top-of-the-line, 12 cup Braun began to leak after many years of service.  Braun has discontinued their best 12 cup model (??) so we settled for the Cuisinart.  What a surprise to discover that due to poor design, it also leaves a puddle in back if you remove the grounds as soon as the coffee has been brewed. Condensation runs down the lid and either overwhelms or misses the little funnel trap they installed to prevent that exact problem.There is no outside fill level indicator.  If you are short, you will need a step stool to look down into the reservoir to tell when you have filled it to your chosen level.  And you need good depth perception and an overhead light source to gauge just where the water level is in that dark and fairly narrow opening.That leads me to the next point.  The narrow opening makes you be quite precise in filling it with water to avoid outside spills or inadvertently slopping it into the grounds container.The digital clock is not backlit and you have to lean down to see it because it looks straight out.  A slight upward angle would allow one to see it without bending down.And finally, I've always liked the Braun brew light that changes from red to green simultaneous with the audible signal.  If I happen to not hear the &quot;ready&quot; signal, a glance at the light confirms the coffee is ready.  The Cuisinart light stays red all the time.I took it back to the department store.  The clerk who waited on me had one at home that had been given to his roommate.  He didn't like it for most of the reasons I have cited.I visited at least 15 stores trying to find a 12 cup Braun.  Finally ordered one from Amazon, but it is the basic, not the now discontinued deluxe version.The Cuisinart isn't worth even half of the price being asked.  Interestingly Cuisinart makes this model for BJ's but leaves off the self clean button.  And they make a Kenmore model for Sears that is identical except the clock is analog and at the top, versus digital and at the bottom.  The analog clock is much easier to see than the poorly placed digital.It does make good coffee and if that is all you care about, go for it.  Otherwise, you can do better and do it for less money.