ID: B000CRX6YI-R175WNRZDVF1BR-A3QNX5KWHDV0GD
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-70mm-3-5-4-5G
ReviewerID: A3QNX5KWHDV0GD
ReviewerName: James Cooper "Conspicuous Consumer"
Date: August 11, 2006
Helpful: 42 of 55
Rating: 4.0
Title: Could be Better
Content:
Don't get me wrong, this is a great camera, but it could have been so much more. Like many, I moved up from a D70, which is a spectacular camera with few shortcomings. One of those shortcomings was the ability to save custom settings. Well the D200 was supposed to solve that problem with 4 custom settings banks, and 4 more shooting menu banks. Why 2 sets of banks, you ask? Beats the hell out of me, and in my opinion, they're all pretty much worthless.
Take the custom settings banks. By my count there are about 56 different settings. So you go into Bank A and set all of them for your needs. If one of those settings is something you always use, you have to change it in each of the 4 banks separately. So, you've got your custom settings set up for Bank A and you start shooting. You need to change an option for a shot or two, so you scan through all the settings, find the one you want, and change it. Guess what! That's where it stays until you set it back. So what's the point really? And wouldn't it be nice if you could just see what you changed on a menu? Nope, you still have to go through ALL the settings every time, including the stupid ones that you'll never change in your lifetime. I could go on, but do you get my point? I use Auto-ISO all the time (the camera automatically raises ISO to achieve a desired shutter speed). But to turn it off and on, which I do frequently, I have to go through the menus to do so.
The D200 has 3 buttons conveniently located for easy checking or adjustment. Picture Quality, ISO, and White Balance. These are a great feature, and easy to use. So why have them as menu options, too?
On the positive side, the camera is solidly built. It's nice having the extra resolution (although Nikon's consumer level dSLR should have that by the time you read this). You can see the ISO in the viewfinder, very helpful. Focusing and exposure seem much more accurate than the D70. The screen is large and easy to view. Battery life remaining is much easier to determine, but battery life itself is pitifully short (I guess that big screen and those VR lenses help drain the battery). With the D70, I could always feel confident that I could get in a full days shooting on a charge. Not so with the D200. One more thing is remote shutter release. The D70 had a great little IR remote which set you back &lt;$20. Try to accomplish the same on the D200 and it'll cost you almost $200. Just a simple cable release is about $35 if I remember correctly. Why?
In summery, this is a great camera, which coupled with an 18-200 lens, will give you a package that will rival any for picture quality and convenience at an acceptable price. But, it could be better...