ID: B000HE8T9I-R3R9FOB7JC4HGP-A1DO9OAQIEFQA
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Infinity-Upright-Vac-2d-NV30
ReviewerID: A1DO9OAQIEFQA
ReviewerName: larryf1952
Date: December 7, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: This is a great vacuum
Content:
Like any other mechanical device that I've ever seen reviewed on the internet, there are those who like it, and those who hate it.  Usually, the truth is somewhere in between.  I am a technical and mechanically inclined person by nature and by trade, and I've found that with a little bit of knowledge, patience, common sense, and...aghast!...time spent reading the operator's manual...99% of the problems with machines that other people report are non-issues.
I've owned the Infinity vacuum for a little over 2 years.  I replaced an older Panasonic upright that used bags, because replacement bags were getting too expensive.  We have 2 cats in the house, so I was vacuuming once a week and filling up a bag about every 3 weeks.  I looked at the Dyson, but $599 for a machine that is 98% plastic seemed downright silly to me.  Even with R&D costs factored in, that is a LOT of green for a plastic machine.  So, I was happy to find the Infinity at $199.
In the time that I've had it, I have NEVER had to replace a belt.  I have never even had to try to find the belt.  I clean the dust canister every other time that I vacuum.  Yes, this is more trouble than simply switching out a bag.  In my case, I pop out the dust canister, take it out into my garage, pop open the bottom and shake out the dirt, then remove the screen cylinder and clean it.  I use a small air compressor with a nozzle on it to blow out the dust from all of these pieces, and clean the cyclonic chamber.  It takes about 10 minutes out of my life...big deal.  About the same time that I'd use to smoke a cigarette to help myself get sick with cancer, or 1/20th the time to drink enough beer to get obnoxiously drunk.
The only "problem" that I've had with this vacuum was that the cam for the height adjustment wasn't making any change in the actual height after the first 2 clicks, so I checked it and found that it was being obstructed by the bottom of the vac.  I removed it and trimmed a little excess material off of it, and now I have the complete range of adjustment from top to bottom.  I leave it on the next to last lowest setting, and it sucks things from my carpet that I didn't even know existed.
Someone mentioned that it clogged and overheated.  If one keeps the canister and dust screen clean, this won't happen.  There is a light on the right side of the machine that flashes orange when the airflow is reduced by too much dirt...if this is flashing, stop and clean the freaking machine.  I also remove and rinse out the HEPA filters about every 6 months.
My wand has never come out when I've inserted it until it clicks.  This has just been a great vacuum for 1/3 the price of a Dyson.  Learn how to use and maintain it correctly, and one will have little to whine about.