ID: B0002ISJGC-R10WQRISW4B4SO-A2R6RA8FRBS608
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-DCM1400B-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A2R6RA8FRBS608
ReviewerName: Matthew G. Sherwin
Date: August 7, 2007
Helpful: 8 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: fine economical breed of coffee maker
Content:
Black & Decker makes an excellent budget oriented coffee maker with lots of features especially considering the low price you pay for it. I have use this coffee maker for almost two years without any complaints; it brews a great cup of coffee in a very short amount of time. Love that java kick in the morning! You can even make up to ten cups of coffee with this machine! Oh, thank heaven!
The machine plugs into any standard electrical outlet--and from there on in the benefits are all yours. You can program this unit the night before so that you wake up to a great cup of coffee--the timer and clock features help to do that. It's easy enough to place a new coffee filter in the coffee filter holder; and the water reservoir runs around the coffee filter holder. When you open the plastic lid that covers the top of the coffee maker you can see the coffee filter holder in the circular middle of the top of the coffee maker; and the water resevoir runs around it.
Moreover, the drip-less pour spout is indeed drip-less--great! Black & Decker's coffee maker has a sneak-a-cup feature but I can't comment on that--I never used it. The simple, straightforward instructions will tell you how to do this, so don't worry. The "keep warm" plate works well, too. 
In addition, Amazon notes that "the carafe, lid, and filter basket are top-rack dishwasher-safe;" but I personally don't take that risk--I hand wash them carefully in the sink and them dry them very carefully instead. Just my personal preference--I wouldn't want my coffee maker to be ruined by the intense heat of the dry cycle of my dishwasher.
Overall, you just can't get any better for your money with this wonderful coffee maker by Black & Decker. I highly recommend it for persons who want an economical but reliable coffee maker. 
Use it in good health!