ID: B000EPHP4U-RWVBN4XXQLZM1-A1U6WGVJWJOKXJ
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Black-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A1U6WGVJWJOKXJ
ReviewerName: netchtress
Date: November 1, 2006
Helpful: 49 of 55
Rating: 4.0
Title: I'm a Pod person now
Content:
I give this iPod 4.5 stars out of 5. I always wanted an iPod so last year I bought an iPod mini at the low, low price of $300. I was disappointed that I had paid so much for something that didn't even have a radio and I returned it to the store. Instead, I bought a Creative Muvo Micro, a tiny pink player with a replaceable triple A battery and an FM radio. I thought, why should I pay $300 for an iPod with several gigabytes of space that I don't need just because it was pink and cool looking, when I could have a $100 player that has more. Me and my Creative Muvo Micro were getting along great for an entire year before the unthinkable happened...I lost it. I searched for 2 weeks for the little thing and I still can't find it, so I needed a new mp3 player. If I'm going to get something new, I want something with more space, better sound quality, a better screen, just something of better technology than the player I bought a year ago. I didn't want an iPod, but every other player sold in stores is big, black, and ugly. Since the iPod Nano was now a more reasonable price at $150 for a silver one, I bought it. I wanted a pink one, but I didn't need 4 gigs of space and besides, you should get a case that covers your iPod to protect anyway, so I just bought a pink case instead. I've had this player for a week and so far I love it.
It came in a small box with nothing but a usb cable, earbuds, and the iPod itself. You have to download a certain version of iTunes from the Apple webiste. Afterwards, I didn't know what to do. I'm pretty computer savvy but it took about a day before I figured out how exactly to get songs on and off the player. The directions on the website are in a video tutorial and I didn't find them that helpful. 
The sound quality is excellent. Much better than my previous player. The earbuds fit very well, they're comfortable and sort of small so they don't hurt my ears. 
The color screen is very bright. It even allows you to put album artwork with the songs you play, which is really sort of useless to me, but it's still looks cool.
There is no radio which means that I can't listen to the tv at the gym. However, I just discovered free podcasts. I downloaded some free upbeat running music as well as some educational stuff to learn to speak Spanish. There are many, many podcasts to download so I might not have a problem filling up the 2 gigs of space. You can buy a radio for it though.
Battery life is excellent, I've had a full battery every time I turn it on.
There is one thing I don't like about the player and that is the placement of the headphone jack. It's on the bottom of the player which is very awkward. If I've got the iPod clipped on me while I'm working, the headphone cord gets in the way and sometimes gets pulled out.
I've actually had one problem with the player since I've had it, so that's not really a good sign. The thing completely froze with the screen light turn on. I couldn't turn it off or do anything with it and since there's an internal battery, I couldn't just pull out the battery to shut it off. I had to go home and search the apple site to figure out how to reset it. It took a couple of seconds and now it's working fine again.
I think Apple could have at least included a belt clop or a case for the player, but you can find cheap stylish cases with clips at online stores.
*UPDATE*
I've had my iPod Nano for about 2 months now. I haven't had any more problems with it. I use it just about every day! I've never run out of battery life and rarely have to charge it up.