ID: B000TDTF18-R1OF0PK1PB7FJA-A36VFRXZAHXSPY
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: DeLonghi-DCF212T-Coffeemaker-Convenient-Access
ReviewerID: A36VFRXZAHXSPY
ReviewerName: LL Cool Jack "shakesmcgillicutty"
Date: April 2, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Hot Coffee, Great Features
Content:
I bought this March 2010.  Please note that we bought the same maker but ours has a thermal carafe instead of glass.  I read almost every review on this and I was a little concerned about the coffee not being hot enough. (We like our coffee *hot*.) We did five test runs on the DeLonghi. We currently have a Cuisinart and during one trial we brewed both coffee makers at the same time as a comparison. 
 
PROS: The DeLonghi by far was the hotter of the two.  Honestly, I'm not sure why other reviews complained about the temperature.  Not only was the coffee steaming hot, the thermal carafe has the extra benefit of a heated bottom plate. We also set a timer for 20 minutes checking for heat retention. The coffee stayed as hot as when it was freshly brewed.  I have to mention that we use room temperature water for coffee. We buy reverse osmosis water and leave a gallon jug out just for coffee.  That may have affected the efficiency of the water heater.  We did not preheat the carafe.  The cup warmer is just wonderful.  I've never had one and it was so nice to to have a toasty warm mug for my morning coffee.  I like the front access feature.  I don't have to pull the maker all the way out.  Having access to the water and coffee at the same time was nice.  I like the design and the black with stainless.  It matches my black granite and stainless appliances so well and looks cool on my counter.  I don't like appliances out but I don't mind this one.  
CONS: My issue with pull out arm that is when the when I added water it's hard to see how much is being put in.  The arm pulls out to the left and the water gauge is on the right.  I had to bend my head to the side and down to peek at the water level.  I know that sounds lazy and I could have move the arm in an a few inches; nevertheless, it did bug me a bit.  The clock feature/auto timer worked nicely but it only goes forward.  The time speeds up when the "set" button is continually pressed.  I went past the correct time and had to go through the 24 hour cycle to come back to the right time.  Lastly, the water capacity of this coffee maker & carafe is exactly 10 cups.  My Cuisinart can handle a little over the 12 cup limit, however the DeLonghi does not.  I intentionally added a generous 11 cups and it did over flow a bit.
I know this sounds like I'm not recommending.  But the hot temperature, the extra bonus of a heated bottom plate, the cup warmer and the design is cool enough that I'm actually going keep.          I