ID: B000VX7VJO-R5CVJUFFI8LCL-A2BG7KAE6GFA0U
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Breville-BKC600XL-Gourmet-Single-Cup-Coffee
ReviewerID: A2BG7KAE6GFA0U
ReviewerName: Bayard T. Pearce "Watch Man"
Date: July 25, 2008
Helpful: 5 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Cadillac of Keurigs
Content:
In my search for a coffee maker that could produce a really good cup of hot,rich and flavorful coffee, I have purchased 4 different coffee makers in the last few years. I bought two Cuisinarts. The first one is considered to be the best traditional drip coffee maker. Since I live alone I didn't really need to make even a half a pot of coffee, didn't really like making it in the morning and didn't like the fact that, if I set it up to be ready in the morning, I found that the coffee had a burned taste if it sat on the warming plate for more than 15 minuets.The second coffee maker I purchased was better in that regard but it was the type that stores the coffee in the machine and then you dispense it one cup at the time with the press of a lever. This is a nice machine but its a pain to clean and you have to pull it out from under the kitchen cabinet in order to open the top for adding water or cleaning it. Recently I've begun to share my home with a roommate. She is a nurse who gets up ealier than I do and prefers very, what I refer to as "foo foo flavored girl coffee". I, being a grown man, prefer my coffee strong,dark and full flavored. So, we started to look at the pod coffee makers. First up was the Senseo pod machine. Its a nice coffee maker, cetainly cheap enough and it makes a nice cup of coffee. The drawbacks to this machine are that it doesn't really make all that great coffee and its pain to remove the dripping pods and clean the pod holders after each cup. In addition you still have to pull it out from under the counter to operate it. 
Enter, Drum roll please!!!!!!, the Breville BKC600XL. Its quite simply the best of the Keurig type brewers.This machine has restored my faith in mankind, not to mention Australian kitchen appliance designers.! The Breville certainly looks the part of a high end appliance with its gleaming stainless steel and high tech LEDs. The blue LEDs do a great job of lighting the control panel as well as illuminating the 60oz water reservoir. You can customize you cup settings and even change the water temp in 1 degree increments. We have the machine programed to come on early in the morning when my roommate gets up and stays on untill its time for me to leave for work. When we're out the door , the Breville turns itself off to save electricity. 
Brewing coffee is simplicity itself. You open the die cast lever on top and insert your choice of k cup. Lower the lid, select your cup size and press the brew button. In less than a minute, you'll have one of the best cups of coffee available at home.
Are there any negatives. Well, aside from the cost of the thing and the K-cups, the machine makes a little noise.I've discovered that you can enjoy considerable reduction in noise and vibration by cutting out rubber shelf liner to match the footprint of the coffee maker and placing about three sheets under the feet. Also, if you place a small sheet of this stuff under the cup holder you will also reduce noise and vibration by about 50% or so. Its well worth taking the time to do this and if you select the shelf liner in a color close to you countertop color then it will be invisable in daily use.
To sum it up, the Breville BKC600XL is one fine coffee maker and most probably the best of the Keurig type machines out there. I really enjoy mine and the conveinience it offers. Its great looking, performs well and is very simple to operate. I recommend it to anyone looking for a single cup coffee maker.
btp