ID: B0000X7CMQ-RAPL4M8ML0TUE-A2L6K9PEUA7BHU
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Zojirushi-EC-BD15-Thermal-Carafe-Coffee
ReviewerID: A2L6K9PEUA7BHU
ReviewerName: Kendall Giles
Date: March 1, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Fresh, hot coffee all day
Content:
When I started my new job, I found myself getting into a routine --- on my way in to the office I would stop by one of those coffee shops on the corner to grab a large cup of wake-up. This would last me until early afternoon, whereupon I would go again to get more coffee to see me through the rest of the day. Now, these coffee shops tend to serve good coffee, but you pay for the ambience, and after a while my routine started to lighten my wallet a bit too much.
In a search for alternatives, I tried carrying coffee with me from home, but the container was not large enough to see me through the entire day. So I decided to buy a small coffee maker, but, from past experience, I knew that most did not heat the water enough to make a good cup of coffee, and the burner on the bottom tended to scorch the coffee left sitting in the pot.
The Zojirushi EC-BD15 Fresh Brew Thermal Carafe Coffee Maker met and exceeded both of my criteria. The water is heated enough to make a really good cup of coffee --- as good as I was getting in that coffee shop on the corner --- and because it keeps the coffee in a thermal carafe, rather than using a burner, the coffee does not get burned. It is also safer not having a burner hot plate, since I don't have to worry about accidently leaving the burner on when I leave the office at night.
The thermal carafe keeps the coffee hot for hours --- at the end of the day my coffee is still hot enough, for me. It is also just the right size --- when I finish drinking a carafe's worth of coffee, I know it must be time to go home. I also like the stainless-steel cafe and coffee maker styling.
There are many more expensive coffee makers out there, but for the price, I have been very happy with the quality of the unit and the quality of the coffee it makes. Also, my productivity is up, and my wallet is happier too.
(review by Kendall Giles)