ID: B000FFQ4TG-R3BK8CHCE26STS-A1VADMMKFN02I2
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: NHBX-B-Contemporary-10-Cup-Coffee-Brewer
ReviewerID: A1VADMMKFN02I2
ReviewerName: Brian Miller
Date: January 15, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Coffee, Great Coffeemaker
Content:
I had owned a Bunn in the past...it was a less expensive model than this one, but used the same principle of preheated water in a reservoir ready for coffee.  I had had a Braun that lasted for over 10 years and was terrific, but alas, they don't last foreever.  I had originally told my wife to replace the coffeemaker, and she came home with a Mr Coffee.  It cost somewhere around $25, and while not thrilled with it (I'm the coffee drinker in the family) decided to try it out.  The Mr Coffee required cleaning more regularly than any other I had ever used, and after six months, even after cleaning with white vinegar, it would take 1/2 hour to make a large pot of coffee.  On top of that, it would sputter and 10 cups of water would become 8 and the coffee would be incredibly bitter.  
So, decided to go back and look for something more premium.  Here's what I like about the Bunn:
--Brews 10 cup pot in about three minutes
--Preheated water doesn't mean "boiling"...coffee is hot and at right temperature
--Coffee tastes better. 
--Carafe pours easily
--BTW it looks great on the counter
The drawback that one person pointed out is that this could cost you more in energy.  You do have the option (you didn't have this with "older" Bunn models) of switching on and off for when you are going to be away...I switch off for the weekend if I'm going to be away and then fire back up on Sunday PM.  The way I look at it is that using the energy saver means that you are going to have to wait 15 minutes for coffee.  You will have that with ANY coffeemaker WITHOUT a reservoir, so don't see that as a drawback.  But if you are like me and rushed in the morning, having the reservoir means having great coffee when you wake up without having to set the timer.  
I'm glad I switched back to a Bunn.  Great quality machine, and convenience makes up for any drawback you could try to point out.
You also can't go wrong buying this at Amazon, especially if you are Prime.  This same coffeemaker was $40 more at Wal Mart.