ID: B0008JIW8U-R25302QMF9Z32L-A4NXA2IJNE10H
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Mr-Coffee-DRX5-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A4NXA2IJNE10H
ReviewerName: Tetsu Uma "The 'Iron Horse'"
Date: September 7, 2008
Helpful: 36 of 38
Rating: 5.0
Title: Nice Unit - Great for Small Apartment or Desk
Content:
I've been using my Mr. Coffee DRX5 coffee maker for eight months now and I really like it. I wanted a small coffee maker for my desk at work and this one has really fit the bill. It has a very small footprint so it works great on my desk, it has not leaked a drop which is also good, and it makes pretty good coffee. (I use a heaping 2 tablespoon scoop for four cups.) I chose the black color so it doesn't show the stains. The unit has a removable filter basket so I don't spill grounds when emptying and the water level sight "glass" (which is plastic) is really handy since I fill it out of a water bottle rather than using the carafe. The clock is a great feature as I don't have one at my desk. (I notice that others have mentioned having problems with the clock but mine works just fine.)  The output when I make a full pot fills my coffee cup about twice which I find is about the right amount of coffee for me.  
I only have minor complains. You have to pour slowly so the carafe doesn't spill and one hour shut off doesn't give me enough time. (Some mornings I make coffee at 6:30 and don't had a chance to touch it until after 8:00.) You can hit start again and it will warm up the carafe. 
Overall, this is a great little unit and it has inspired others in my office to purchase this model as well. Making my own coffee is much cheaper than paying a $1.00 for a 16 oz. cup in the cafeteria and I love the smell when the coffee is brewing.  Having this unit allows me to drink the specialized coffee I prefer.  The small size means making a second pot isn't so much of a chore on those days when one pot isn't going to cut it.  I recommend the Mr. Coffee DRX5 to people who like fresh coffee with a minimum of fuss, either at home or at work.