ID: B000OK0YWK-R33ZB2FYTZNBDZ-AOTJBCY2XU2FR
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Red
ReviewerID: AOTJBCY2XU2FR
ReviewerName: anonymous
Date: November 9, 2007
Helpful: 7 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Love my new zune!
Content:
I have to admit, I was a bit timid when I read some of the product reviews about this product.  But I figured, hey, for $100, I can give the Zune a try and return it if I'm not satisfied.  My package arrived in no time, and the box was in perfect shape.  The brown color is fine (though it wasn't my first color choice), and it doesn't attract fingerprints!! The greenish light that emanates from the edges of the zune is pretty cool, too.  While the Zune is a bit bigger than what I'm used to in mp3 players, it's not any different than a larger-capacity iPod.
     This is my second mp3 player.  I have a 2GB Sansa whose capacity quickly became full, since I share it with my husband.  I have to say, I didn't have the software issues that people in the other reviews had.  I popped in the disk, and while the software downloaded slowly (a cable modem would definitely have been handy), it downloaded perfectly, and even updated itself with no problems whatsoever (and it even prompted me to explain that if I had any problems with device detection, to simply switch to a rear USB port).  It synched my existing library from Windows Media Player (I couldn't even figure out how to use the Sansa software that came with that player) all by itself!!!  That was handy.  It also downloaded my photo library, and still had TONS of space left on its hard drive. 
     I was also glad to learn that the earbuds actually stayed in my ears (not the case with the Sansa earbuds), although I think I will probably invest in different ones, anyway (I suspect my ears are the problem, not the earbuds).  They did have good sound, though (although one earbud doesn't work, so I was glad to read in another review that customer service rocks, and I won't even have to send in the defective ones).
     Probably the only less-than-positive thing I would have to say is buyer beware if you purchase a zune pass monthly membership.  I read the user agreement, and as soon as you stop paying the monthly fee, your ability to use anything you downloaded to your zune is gone.  Which means you'll end up buying everything all over again.  Though I also read that once the new zune debuts, the software will change to support other types of downloads, which is nice.  However, I still like old-fashioned cds, simply because I own what's on them for as long as I want to keep the cd, and it syncs just fine to the Zune.
     Overall, this is a great music player.  Thank you, Microsoft!  Keep up the good work.