ID: B0000C8VU8-R1ESXTVKCJFFBA-A31EWAL58YLWIR
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-6-3MP-Digital-Rebel-Camera
ReviewerID: A31EWAL58YLWIR
ReviewerName: Mark A. Foster "http://www.marksphotoblog.com"
Date: January 10, 2005
Helpful: 19 of 19
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great SLR with only one feature I miss...
Content:
I have been using this camera for nearly a year now and have since purchased additional lens for it.  It takes very sharp pictures and I don't feel like I am limited by the feature set in anyway except for lack of being able to shoot RAW in some of the user modes.  The lens that it comes with is a good starter lens and takes good pictures but once you get addicted you might end up purchasing a Canon L and or Prime like I did. :)  This camera is great for learning photography with because you get to see your results very quickly!  This camera just takes great pictures and gives you all the control you need to get creative with exposure, focus, etc.  The plastic body is relatively durable although I wouldn't want to drop it but then would you want to drop a metal body camera either?!  Do not fear, even with a plastic body it has that solid SLR feel.  All my hard copy prints from the online digital photo lab look very sharp.  I even had a poster print done and it came out great.  Many people claimed that 6 Megapixal camera is not enough to make a good poster print.  After seeing the results I say hogwash.  The poster print I got back from the online photolab(Ofoto in this case) was a better quality print than any poster print I have seen at the mall poster store.  8x10 prints are simply stunning.  Take the time to go through the manual and learn all the features of the camera.  I can not really comment on the software that comes with the camera because I never mess software that they bundle with cameras.  I use a good card reader, Windows XP for my OS, Irfanview (which is free) for viewing and mild editing, and Photoshop(not so free) for any major editing.  I found the Sandisk Ultra II Compact Flash cards work very well and are worth the extra dough for the faster performance.  I wish I had RAW in all the user modes but I guess Canon had cripple something like this to convince people to shell out the extra dough for the higher end stuff.  Happy picture taking!