ID: B000JNP7M4-R1VIDOYETQ4X8M-A32L99Q6GBGV10
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: NewAir-AH-400-Portable-Adjustable-Temperature
ReviewerID: A32L99Q6GBGV10
ReviewerName: THE Buyer
Date: December 29, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Works well for my knees area
Content:
I thought I purchased this "NewAir" model but the one I actually received is the "Dayton 1VNX3 Electric Oil Filled Space Heater With Analog Thermostat" according to the item/photo posted on Amazon.  Anyhow, I'm OK with that since it is working well for my knees.  You want to get this heater if there isn't much room under your desk and other radiant heaters are simply too hot/too big.  With this heater turned to half heat your kneecaps can touch the panel with pants and not get burned, but you will feel gentle heat coming through your pants.  BTW, I am in Southern California and this review is based on using this heater in a 50-60F environment, my office will turn the central heating on if temperature dips quite a bit below 60F so the warmth for upper body is taken care of by central heating.  Where I need the warmth the most is the kneecaps area and it works just right at around 6-8" below average kneecaps height, and I can feel the heat by placing my knees 2-3" away from the panel which is sufficient in my environment.  Then I can move my knees further away, or closer, accordingly.  However, if you are expecting a lot of heat farther away from the panel, or if you live in a much colder area, or if you need heat for your upper body and surrounding area, then you need to get something more powerful like a regular room or area heater.  This unit heats up a small and targeted area, and for my use it works well. The only downside I can see so far may be the plastic clip-on stands that are a bit weak if you are not careful with it. It can be knocked down with a slight kick because of its lightweight. But like everything else you should be the one in control of preventing it from happening.  Otherwise, it works well for me.