ID: B000PHS8MA-R2SK7IZXIS33R8-A3W4D8XOGLWUN5
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Zen-Stone-Player-White
ReviewerID: A3W4D8XOGLWUN5
ReviewerName: Michael Kerner "Michael Kerner"
Date: June 17, 2007
Helpful: 6 of 17
Rating: 3.0
Title: Set To Stone?
Content:
With Apple's recent success of redesigning their small Ipod Shuffle, many consumers have designed MP3 players that would be smaller and more convient to take with you anywhere you go. Although some might be such a good idea, but that doesn't actually mean it will be compatable with everything. Creative Labs has tried several times with perfecting a better MP3 player for years. Although they've had good quality ones, they just haven't been universal to everything that is downloaded off the internet. Their Zen Nano series seemed like a really good deal, but it backfired on music downloads. Now, a new Zen has hit the stores, but does it seem to re-shine Creative's delivery on MP3 players?
The Creative Labs Zen Stone 1GB MP3 player, brings the compact and convience Apple displayed with the newest version of the Ipod Shuffle, and a fraction of the price. The MP3 player is simple to recharge, but falls short on the battery with only a 10 hour playback, where others have a little bit longer life. The device is easy to place anywhere, even in your shirt pocket. It will only work on Windows XP & Vista, not earlier operating systems like ME or 98. There is also another problem, it will not work with music subscription services like Rhapsody or Napster, only pay per track downloads which leaves some MP3 buyers looking for something a bit better.
All in all, Creative Labs Zen Stone isn't really a great purchase for any new MP3 buyer. It falls a bit short in display, and it shows in the price. Instead, I really recommend something from Sandisk, which has better MP3 players and works great with download services. As for this one, it falls short of playback.
Price: C
Convience: C+
Compatability: C 1/2-
Overall: C-