ID: B0000YTYGM-RDAT1NBULD82I-A1Z0PB6E114VGP
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DTC-975BKN-Programmable-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1Z0PB6E114VGP
ReviewerName: R. Kasper
Date: January 8, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Solid machine!
Content:
I drink coffee every morning, like most of America. Unlike some, I work from home, so I enjoy brewing coffee right away and letting it sit while I work a bit, then go back for my 2nd, 3rd, 4th cup. Until this machine, I had a glass carafe so my coffee would become less and less tolerable as the day wore on, until I threw the cold, scorched remains away around 10am. 
This machine is very solid, from my usage. I know I'm one of the many that will say that the coffee stays piping hot, and the carafe is awesome. 
I am not like those who will complain about the beep (yes, it's not silent, no it isn't loud, it just makes you aware that you're delicious cup of joe is now fully prepared.) 
I will though agree that the water gauge is less than convenient, but hey it's there and I just need to curve my head around in the morning.
To those that have problems with spillage, overflowing, and with problems with the carafe: others have said it, but it's mostly operator error. I haven't had a problem because I make sure that I set the carafe down properly in the maker, and I also make sure that POUR and the arrow are squarely lined up. 
Lastly, for those that complain that the coffee tastes like metal: I'm wondering if you by chance read the instructions? It specifically tells you to brew some water through it before. I'm guessing it's to get any manufacturer remains out, and to let the wonderful Cuisinart product emit it's slight plastic scent the first time around (I have many Cuisinart products and each of them smells like plastic the first time I've used them.)
This machine is very functional, despite the water gauge being moderately inconvenient. I would advise everyone to read the directions first, as many "complaints" could have been averted by users following the guidelines and instructions, such as: brew it first, make sure the lid is on tight enough, don't touch the bottom of the carafe when hot, etc.