ID: B000FFWGN4-R12LMAO3SWK2QN-A2KNZSQO4DMZV5
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-Lift-2dOff-Revolution-Pet-37602
ReviewerID: A2KNZSQO4DMZV5
ReviewerName: P. Boon
Date: October 15, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Fantastic Value For Money!  BUY IT!
Content:
I read all the reviews prior to purchase and was skeptical, I anticipated disappointment.  But I am so glad I bought this vacuum cleaner because it is absolutely phenomenal!  This is a long review, but read it, it's worth it.
I should note that:
A- we have five indoor cats, and 
B- this vacuum was a replacement for the Consumer Reports most highly rated Kenmore Progressive vacuum that inexplicably burst into flames.
I cannot fathom how Consumer Reports rated this less favorably as it is clearly a superior product.  It cleans exponentially better than the Kenmore Progressive, maneuvers more easily and is less than half the price of the Kenmore.  Naysayers must have purchased a defective unit, because I am unable to find fault in this vacuum.  The only thing that's even minutely negative is the placement of the attachments- they're a little fiddly to get on and off, but once you use them, you just won't care because they are brilliant!  
We have almost brand new carpet, I thought the Kenmore was doing a reasonable job until I used the Bissell for the first time and saw what the Kenmore missed in the canister, GROSS!  Not any more, though.  Every time I use the Bissell, the carpet looks a little better and the house smells even cleaner.  A dear friend who is horribly allergic to cats is even able to come inside for a drink, now!  She couldn't do that before when I used the Kenmore.
It's also relavent to note since I noticed it was an area of contention with other reviewers is that most quality upright vacuum cleaners weigh around the 20lb mark, this one is no different, so if you want a lightweight vacuum, either start working out, buy an Oreck or put in hard surface flooring, because I have never used a vacuum that weighed less than a bowling ball.  That being said, I still have no problems picking this thing up compared to most other vacuums I've used.
The bottom line, if you buy this vacuum and aren't as happy as I, an anal-retentive, borderline OCD clean freak, am with it, you must have bought the wrong model or a defective unit.  I cannot say enough wonderful things about how this vacuum revolutionized my daily cleaning routine.  Buy it now.  Nuff said.