ID: B000OK0YWK-R12H3I906U5ZB5-A2E0FTZJ7U8HAZ
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Red
ReviewerID: A2E0FTZJ7U8HAZ
ReviewerName: K. Lucca
Date: December 28, 2006
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Even better than expected
Content:
I bought this for my Dad for Christmas and he wanted an ipod because thats the only big name he heard of. I was looking between the ipod and the zune and since he's in his 50's and pretty rugged with his stuff I thought I would give the Zune a shot. It does have a bigger screen which is better for his eyes, the screen supposedly scratches less than the ipods does, I actually liked that this was a bit thicker, it feels sturdier than the thinner ipod, and I think (my preference and what I think would be better for my dad) the click wheel is easier to use than the touch sensitive one that the ipod has. After playing with it I was amazed by the zunes interface, its so much easier to move through the menus than on the ipods (again preference) so that was a nice bonus when I started to play with it.
The zune software for your PC gave me some troubles installing until i found out that one of my USB devices was interfering with it. I'm not sure which one so I just unplugged all of them but my mouse and installed the software when the install was done I just plugged all of them back in and it worked perfectly. I had been hearing really bad things about the software for the PC so this is where I was the most nervous, especially since my Dad was going to be using it. I knew it had to be simple and straightforward so he wouldn't get frustrated with it. After playing around with it I knew the interface in about 10 minutes. I then walked my dad through everything and he thought it was great. He was ripping and syncing in no time. I had to teach him what "ripping" and "syncing" was, he didn't know the lingo if you will. He has been playing with it for three days now and on his own he has been putting all of his CDs onto the computer and syncing them over to the zune. I also just set it up so he can plug his zune in his car and listen to all of his music through the car speakers which was the biggest reason he wanted an mp3 player. 
I have no real big complaints about the Zune or the software. It has decent third party support but it needs much more and they are hard to find in stores such as Best Buy, I had better luck at GameStop I believe it was. I'm now on the search for something to hold his zune in his car without having to lay it in the cup holder unprotected since he is known to spill coffee there. I keep hearing more accessories are coming in January and February so I'll keep my eyes open. 
I fully recommend this product.