ID: B00006CXS8-R32K45LQSNTW9C-A26X9ZWIPAW0Q5
Category: MP3Players
Product: RCA-Lyra-RD1080-128-Player
ReviewerID: A26X9ZWIPAW0Q5
ReviewerName: John in Houston
Date: October 4, 2004
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great product, could be designed a little better
Content:
Overall this has been a great product, I have been running with it for about 1 month now--3 times a week.  I formerly ran with headphones so was a little concerned about having the strap on my arm.   The carrying case is adjustable to any size arm and weighs almost nothing--I adjusted to it immediately.  You can adjust the volume easily without removing it from the case.  It seems durable,  I copied about 25 songs over from my PC and just put it in shuffle mode and forget about it.   I have not even tried to install the musicmaster software (I already have a war on my computer between Windows Media and the Real Player)--all that I did was rip my CDs to mp3s, hook the Lyra up via usb (same cable that my Palm uses) and my XP PC recognizes it as another drive, so I just copy the files over--I've not been able to accomplish this with WMAs successfully yet but I prefer the mp3s anyhow.
Having the SD card slot is fantastic--this is the same card that my Palm Tungston E uses, so I can transfer songs between these devices very easily and can carry lots of music, if needed.  My battery has never run down yet, its still on maximum power after about 10 hours of use.
The headphones are kind of weird, but I've gotten used to them, they allow you to listen to the music and hear the other sounds around you.
The bad:
The radio doesn't have a lot of range (tends to be staticy), but I got this thing to avoid the constant DJ chatter on every Houston station that used to drive me bananas before I got the Lyra.  
The buttons on not intuitive (I hate reading directions), I still can't figure out how to put the songs in a particular order and the tiny buttons are hard to navigate.
Summary:
Great for working out and running, especially given the price.