ID: B000I1YWLY-R2RURMHWB2N0T7-A2VB9C8IWP9AT8
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL-Bagless-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A2VB9C8IWP9AT8
ReviewerName: Z. Tomcich "Ziggy"
Date: February 27, 2007
Helpful: 14 of 15
Rating: 5.0
Title: An amazing vacuum that you'll never replace
Content:
The Electrolux EL 7055A bagless Canister Vacuum is a remarkable fusion of perfect engineering and ergonomic design.
I've gone through 3 vacuum cleaners in short time. Most have parts that easily break or get really gross and dirty. It's almost as if most vacuums are designed to fail to make you buy a new one. Not so with the Electrolux EL-7055A.
The Electrolux 7055A has been built differently from most other vacuums; its built to last. The elegance of the 7055A is in its simplicity. The clever bagless design traps most of the dirt and particles inside the easily removable container. The air is then sucked through one of two identical Hepa Filters. When one gets dirty, you simply rotate the Hepa Filter holder, and the filter cleans itself out. There's also an third Hepa filter on the exhaust of the vacuum.
These filters don't easily get dirty because most of the dirt gets trapped in the main container. I'm usually very hard on my vacuums, using them to clean things they were never designed for, such as work shops. I've been using this vacuum solid for 3 months and there are very little visible buildup on the main HEPA filter, and NONE on the exhaust filter.
The EL7055A is extremely powerful yet remarkably quiet and simple to use, with all of the controls on the main handle. Most of the cleaning tools fit in the handle as well. The self retracting power cord is well engineered. The entire vacuum feels very rugged.
I have mostly hardwood floors in my apartment, with several smaller carpets. This vacuum made my carpets cleaner then they ever were before, and with its included hard floor cleaner, it's ideal for hardwood floors as well. I usually like to walk barefoot in my apartment, and I can feel how much cleaner the floors have become using the 7055a vs the old broom i used to use.
In fact every part of my apartment is significantly cleaner thanks to this wonderful little vacuum. I've used it to dust the ceiling corners, vacuum my memory foam mattress, and cleanup sawdust in a work shop. There's nothing this vacuum can't do. But what's more impressive is the solid feeling that this vacuum will be around with me for a long time despite my abusing it. Why can't they make everything this solid?