ID: B000VDQ38E-R1QPZ5GQDTM0RV-A3V3ORNFHHYU06
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A3V3ORNFHHYU06
ReviewerName: SoYo
Date: May 16, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 1.0
Title: I will pay someone to get it out of my house....
Content:
I have written one product review in my entire life - about a north face t-shirt that I absolutely loved.  I 'm not a big complainer...but I feel the need to speak up about this product.
Perhaps some of this is due to the fact that I have never owned an upright? But...here are the issues I have.  (I am a cheery person and like to find good things about everything, but I just can't seem to come up with one good thing about this vacuum!!!)
It was a gift, and I unwrapped it on xmas eve and was so excited.  It looked fast.  We have a long haired dog and a long haired cat - and two small children.  (one with long hair, one with short hair...in case that matters...)
I pushed it around in my living room - saying "wow - this thing rocks! look at me go! goodbye hair!!"
Then, I actually had to use it...
I quickly found out that the little sooper-dooper-hair-removal piece on the front of the vacuum just means that it won't fit under anything.  Cabinets, coffee tables, dressers & door stoppers.  All of these now required me to stop, pull the hose off, attach some random piece, and try to suck up dog/cat hair out of the places that used to be easy to reach with my canister vacuum.  This step adds a lot of time to the vacuuming process.  So, my husband removed the little front piece with a screw driver.  Didn't matter.  I still couldn't reach those places because the front of the vacuum is so thick.
Then the little plastic piece that holds the tube in place, broke off.  So...the tube now drags on the ground - begging you to step on it or, better yet, trip over it as you're trying to quickly clean your house.  
Then the plastic piece that holds the cord in place broke off.  So, we only have one piece to hold the cord on, which only holds on a cord if the entire machine is in the upright position.  So, you click the little handy-dandy-foot-petal to start vacuuming - and the entire cord drops to the floor for you to trip over.  I said - screw the cord...I will just vacuum over it. Bad idea.  Running over the cord actually removes the rubber coating from the cord...and I now have 2 sections of cord that have exposed wire.  I now know that I'm supposed to lift the vacuum over the cord (that won't stay on the little hook).  
This introduces another huge problem with the vacuum.  It weighs more than my 5 & 6 year old children combined.  I am a strong person.  I run marathons.  I lift weights.  I'm not a wimp.  I can't lift this thing over its' own cord.  I have stairs in my house.  I get it up one step...try to move the enormous thing from side to side to clean one step...look up and think "good Lord - I have 9  more to go. I can't do it!!"    
Did I mention that my fingers are numb just from pushing the thing around a single room?
Bissel should also have a warning for people to wear full body protection when using the vacuum.  You think it's sucking up the dirt, unless you are wearing shorts or capris.  Then you realize that it is actually just shooting it across the room - as it fires debris at your ankles and lower shins.
I know this is an extremely lengthy negative review, but I feel the need to share a couple more:
- emptying the canister is just nasty
- trying to remove/replace the little attachments is next to impossible.  I'm still trying to figure out if I'm missing some kind of release button to get the "pet hair remover attachment thingey" - or if you really do just have to firmly place both feet on the ground, put one hand on the handle and pull as hard as you can until you think you might break yet another piece off this useless appliance?  
Ok, you get my point.  It is terrible.  I'm sorry Bissel.  I rarely complain like this...but I felt the need to share my horrible experience with your vacuum.  I'm not trying to take you down via negative social marketing - just trying to save one person from making the same mistake that I did.  I'm sure you have many other models that work like a dream:-)  I, however, am turning to an Electrolux canister;-)