ID: B000VDQ38E-R2YT7QNNHLYWNX-A1SH4S5XGTEXZ3
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1SH4S5XGTEXZ3
ReviewerName: Geena H.
Date: December 11, 2007
Helpful: 42 of 44
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good suction, good pick up, decent tools - allergen control needs work
Content:
*Update to review (12/29/07)
Well, we've now had to de-construct and fix the "turbo brush" almost every time we use it.  The unit is only being used to pick up fur belonging to one Jack Russell mix and hair belonging to one med-long haired young woman.  Additionally, despite clean filters, hoses and an empty collection bin, the vacuum has lost a considerable bit of it's suction power.
We're cleaning hardwood floors plus one flight of carpeted stairs and two small rooms with basic average pile carpet.  Cleaning is once per week and the job to do is really not that big, so we're fairly disappointed in the workmanship.  
If I could, I'd change the star rating to 3 since the only tool that makes this vacuum able to clean stairs is a tool that is continually in need of service.  Quite a disappointment to a promising beginning.  Bissell could have done so much better on this.
**
Original review:
We purchased the Pet Hair Eraser after happily parting with a shamefully inadequate Dirt Devil.  Needless to say, we were pleasantly surprised at the power of the Pet Hair Eraser, which does actually erase pet hair just like it says!  Vacuuming is easier, and the accessories make dog hair pickup much more successful.
The vacuum has been used weekly since late October, so I felt it was a fair time to post a review.  Here's what our experience with the Bissell 3920 has been thus far.  Hope it helps!
PRICE
Purchased at Target for around $158 at the end of October 2007.  Price to value seems decent thus far.
SUCTION
Definitely doing a good job.  In the past, we've had low-performing Dirt Devil vacuums, which could explain the 'ah ha' moment we had when the vacuum actually picked up dog hair on carpet on the first swipe.  Additionally, the suction on the hose/attachments is also really quite good.  Our Jack Russell mix's stubborn hair was picked up off the floor, carpet and furniture by the Bissell 3920 in no time.  No more doggie hair everywhere we go!
ALLERGEN CONTROL
While the 3920 is great at picking things up it is also, unfortunately, rather apt to drop and blow dust around.  For several reasons, I do not recommend this vacuum for people who need to control allergies.  
When using the hose attachment, it must be removed from a dock that is actually another hose.  That 'dock' hose spits out air (plus light amounts of dust, of course) while the hose attachments are being used.  If you stop up the 'dock' in order to trap the dust, the hose suction power is weakened.  There does not seem to be a solution for this issue.
I wish I could say that emptying the dirt was pleasant, but it's not.  Cleaning the upper portion of the collection chamber is a mess.  Dumping the lower portion of the collection cup isn't so bad.  However, you've got to either scoop out the dust stuck to the inside or bang it on something to loosen the dirt.  Either way, you're breathing dust.  
ATTACHMENTS
The Pet TurboBrush is great on stairs and has 'rubber' combs on either side of the brush assembly.  The combs pull the dog hair right out of the carpet, into the roller and then into the collection cup.  While it's a very useful tool, it needs cleaning every 3rd or 4th use, since hair gets stuck in the unit.  Cleaning involves removing the 2 screws to open the casing, then removing another screw to open the belt casing.  This is the only way to clear the brush of hair, string, etc. before it will spin freely again.  While this is easy to do, it's time consuming and potentially causing additional wear to the holes in the casing.  Upon cleaning it out for only the second time (I've used the vacuum once a week since late Oct), I noticed that the belt has loosened and slid partially off the wheel it is meant to turn, which may explain the brush's decreased rotation speed from the first month of use.
Pet Hair Lifter doesn't do anything but stick dog hair and lint to itself.  It is, quite simply, a lint brush attached to a piece of plastic.
Contour Tool is meant to help with the stairs but I find the little comb-like extensions  on the TurboBrush are more helpful, so I haven't really used this tool much.
Note - The beater brush continues to spin while the hose/attachments are in use.  You can raise the brush to the highest carpet setting, but if you have to set the vacuum on carpet to clean the stairs, beware - it can burn your carpet depending on the height of the carpet.  Also, beware when you use the hose while the vacuum is on bare floor.  As I was cleaning dog hair off of a chair with one of the attachments, the vacuum rolled over (and damaged) the cord, which had become trapped under the beater brush.  Now I lay the vacuum on it's side to avoid accidentally trapping the cord beneath the beater brush while I use the hose/attachments.
WEIGHT
It's rather heavy to try to use on stairs, so I'm happy the long hose reaches and that TurboBrush seems to be doing a nice job!
NOISE
Yes, it is a noisy vacuum.  It is as noisy as our old Dirt Devil.  I wear earplugs and that has always solved the problem.
OVERALL IMPRESSIONS
While we feel the overall value is good, we would like to see some changes: 
1) Better engineering/design on the hose assembly (keep the suction, lose the dust spewing), TurboBrush tool (tighter belt, easier maintenance), and collection cup (make cleaning easier/cleaner)  
2) Switch to turn off the beater brush when using the hose/attachments  
That said, we are pleased with the suction, features and overall performance (to-date) of this reasonably priced vacuum and would recommend it to non-allergic friends with pets.