ID: B000F9Y2T6-RL2AGAEUSVZBJ-A261PG63GDOSO0
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-7340-Flip-Select-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A261PG63GDOSO0
ReviewerName: Joanne
Date: August 21, 2009
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 2.0
Title: Only OK 2-in-1 Kitchen Floor Cleaning Machine
Content:
No neeed to duplicate details already published.
The design of the Flip-It is very cool.  As promised, you can vacuum with the head in one direction (does an OK job).  Flip the head to reverse it and you have a floor cleaner that automatically shoots out water, brushes the dirty floor, sucks up the dirty water and dries the floor (this is where the mediocre job comes in).  Cleaning side has an interchangeable brush / pad housing that's EZ to change (good design). Separate clean and dirty tanks are easy to see when a refill of fluid is needed, or the dirty water tank needs emptying. It comes equipt with everything you need to get going, but be sure to buy extra cleaning solution as it goes quickly (I have not been able to find at retail easily). 
My Experience:  The Bissell Flip It is an OK machine, but it's not great.  OK, b/c it's light weight and has a small enough footprint that you can store easily so its accessible when you need it for a quick pick up, and mediocre b/c it just doesn't deep clean well.  
Why:  To wash, it takes me no less than 2 slow passes on my kitchen tile floor with the brush attachment to make it look somewhat clean, and another pass with the pad attachment to make it feel a little cleaner.  It is light weight for storage, but the drag on the head when cleaning makes it tiresome to push /pull for the time needed to do an OK job.  Forget about the heater.  The water barely gets warm. It does not clean grout or corners at all so that's done by hand (my grout is recessed a bit; a toothbrush design on the brush brissles would be better).  Finally, it does not lay very flat, so you cannot reach deep under furniture.  I have a hutch with a 5" leg height and it does not fit all the way under so that's done by hand.   And, after all this you have to break it down to clean it.  Ugh.  I thought this would save time.  It does, but not a whole lot.  
 
Keeping It Clean:  It breaks down quickly and is EZ to maintain for optimal operation.  
- Water tanks flip out, EZ, 
- You must keep the filter clean because it's also a vacuum so debris collects in the filter also EZ (Use a toothbrush to get in to the crevices).  Bissell recommends you not place the wet filter back in the machine.  I store all the accessories in a mesh bag that hangs from the handle (on-board accessories is a better idea).  
- Pad needs regular cleaning (EZ; I do a quick hand wash in between laundry times).
FYI:  If it stops working, check your dirty water tank.  It may be an EZ fix by emptying it (good catch / safety).
Like I said, it's EZ to operate/maintain, but it doesn't save a whole lot of time for only an OK result.
Overall:  Great concept; execution needs some work.  As you've likely surmised, it did not met my expectations, but it's very handy for cleaning up after my Schnauzer who's beard leaves water all over the floor all day, I have the room to store it, and I got it on super sale at Kohl's with my 30% off coupon.
P.S.  It is VERY NOISY!
Would I Buy Again At A Super Price:  No
   
Footprint:  11" x 8" x 44" tall.
Weight:  About 10 lbs.
In The Box:  Machine + Carry handle, EZ-to-clean filter, 2 trial size bottles of cleaning solutions (one for wood, one for tile),clean and dirty water tanks, housing for brush / pad (pad is machine washable).