ID: B00006F2MI-R27CD65D5DJWJX-A25D91NZ7LYSO2
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Grind-Brushed-Chrome
ReviewerID: A25D91NZ7LYSO2
ReviewerName: A. Kelley
Date: March 29, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 2.0
Title: So much potential so little actual performance
Content:
My wife, who doesn't drink coffee, got me this coffee maker a couple of years ago. Since she spent a lot of money on it and would be offended if I didn't use it, I'm stuck with it. Anyone who's been married for a while can identify with this problem. I keep hoping it will break so I have an excuse to get a new one. So far, no luck.
Pros: I do like the thermal carafe because it means I don't have to remember to turn off the coffee maker when the brewing process is done. No more burned up carafes. Since the carafe is metal, no more broken glass carafes. I do like the feature that lets you take out the carafe and get a cup before it's finished brewing but that's gotten to be standard on a lot of coffee makers. It's got the usual clock and timer but that's gotten to be pretty standard. Durability.
Cons: Durability. So far. It may have a mysterious and unexplained failure. See my remarks above.
The design of the thermal carafe means that you can't get the last of the coffee out of it short of taking off the lid and turning it upside down which usually splatters the remaining coffee all over the countertop.
Why must there be a detachable lid on the coffee basket? I wasn't paying attention because I was in a hurry and accidentally threw mine away a long time ago when I went to invert the basket over the trash can to empty the grounds.
I quit using the grinder a long time ago and have gone back to preground coffee. Brewing the coffee leaves the interior of the grinder soaking wet and it's not sufficiently ventilated to air out. Unless you somehow remember to leave the top access door open. Which looks real attractive. So when you go to make coffee the next day, all your freshly ground coffee just clogs up in the soggy grinder interior and never makes it into the basket. If you want to make two pots of coffee in a row, forget it. Unless you're willing to dry everything out by hand. I'm not interested in a coffee maker where I have to clean and dry a bunch of parts every time I use it.
Several times it penalized me for not meeting its needs by getting clogged up and overflowing coffee all over the counter top and down the front of the cabinets. Just what I need when I'm trying to get off to work. I now keep it on a tray big enough to catch everything. Which means it takes up twice the amount of counter space.
Drop a bean down the water receptacle? Be prepared to unplug it, take all the parts off, and turn it upside down.
I could go on, but you get the idea.