ID: B000HGMX5M-R25KQSYN99SPK1-AGRJM46UOLGMM
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: AGRJM46UOLGMM
ReviewerName: CHB
Date: July 25, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: Don't be fooled by pixels
Content:
This camera is awesome! Even with "only" 10.2 megapixels, it blows away my best friend's Canon XSi with 12+ pixels (same price). When we shoot side by side, my photos come out way better, more detailed all the way out to the corners - crisp and focused - and with much better color saturation. He even asked me what was "wrong" with his camera once he saw the Nikon results.
There are a few things in the menus and the way it works that are kind of confusing, and I honestly don't know why digital is this way, because I was schooled on 35mm film cameras, but it's all a matter of mastery. Everyone has a brand preference, and I will admit mine has been Nikon since I switched from other brands long ago. You will certainly find people who are just as passionate about Canon or Olympus, true, but when I hear them brag about theirs, I just yawn and think, "my Nikon can do that in it's sleep!"
I personally wouldn't waste my time with concerns over megapixels. Especially after seeing the less-than-professional results from my friend's 12mp+ Canon (fuzzy focus, bland colors). Not to mention the Nikon zoom lenses have a greater range over the competition - for the same price. Also, the D80 is at a GREAT price point right now, being 'upgraded' to the D90, but seriously, most amateur photographers will not ever know they're missing a paltry 2 megapixels.
If you're not sure whether to buy this over the other brands - don't think too hard. Nikon is the best and always has been, in my experience (25 yrs). The proof for me is in the results, side by side with their competitors. Don't be fooled by megapixel stats or ad campaigns. The only reason I gave it four stars and not five is because of the sub-menus which are tedious to navigate and master, and the body is heavier than some other brands - but I just interpret that as being better built. The competition simply pales in comparison! They're all just scrambling to keep up with Nikon, way I see it.