ID: B000FFWGN4-R2ZJWL8WTZP3LS-A3J8VJ6ABSWF7U
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-Lift-2dOff-Revolution-Pet-37602
ReviewerID: A3J8VJ6ABSWF7U
ReviewerName: Brian C. Lance "wife &#34;Natalie&#34; horseM...
Date: December 25, 2007
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Does what was actually made for CLEANING PET HAIR!!!
Content:
I got this vaccum FINALLY...and immediately my carpets and rugs looked like they had been professionally clean...when i walk into the rooms they are much brighter.I knew my old vacum wasnt getting all the hair BUT MY GOSH i had NO IDEA just how much it left behind unitl i used this vaccum.With ANY vaccume and i have used MANY good name brand vaccumes i havent come across any vaccum that you DIDNT have to cut threads,hair or anything else that wrapped around the brush or unclog hoses.So if it ever does happen (which thusfar it hasnt)i wont complain because it goes with the territory. As for the fact that the brush doesnt spin in the upright position...it was designed for that and says that..and i have found that that feature comes in handy at times,so i like that it doesnt spin when in upright.And the canister feature that you can take out and carry it up the stairs with you,I LOVE that feature!! There is never an easy way to vaccum stairs thoroughly,but i will admit this makes it a LOT easier!!! SO tell my WHY would anyone try and take the whole vaccum up and down the steps and vaccum when it has the removeable canister???!!! As for someone complaining that the hose isnt long enough for certain duties,if you make the hose any longer you will loose suction...so no complaint there.Out of all this the ONLY complaint i have is when attaching the hose to the telescoping tool..i had a hard time taking it off to put back together.BUT little things like that i can live with after all..THERE IS NO SUCH THING AS FLAWLESS!!..I have allergies and this is the first bagless i got and as long as I empty the canister(which is VERY simple and easy to take off/on)in an empty garbage can or near empty i dont have problems with the dust flying around and it doesnt bother me,so this versus a vaccum with bag..never again will i go back to a bag!! My allergies were always bothered when i used my old one because the dust went through the bag when in use.I love to vaccume now!! I dont dread it anymore now that i have my bissel.Which i must add that i NEVER would have thought about buying a bissel. This was a gift from my husband(which he SHOULD have known NOT to get me a bissell)and i must say i saw it was a bissel and was kinda disgrunted about it.But i have to say HE DID GOOD....he did VERY good.....Mama is VERY happy!!!..and when Mama is happy.........you know the rest!!