ID: B000GBTTG4-R26LA10STC0QPD-A303YW6OLGEMVL
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Panasonic-DMC-L1-Digital-Camera-14-50mm
ReviewerID: A303YW6OLGEMVL
ReviewerName: Leopold Lysloff "Quality nut"
Date: June 1, 2007
Helpful: 19 of 21
Rating: 5.0
Title: German optics merge with japanese technology
Content:
I own this nice hefty camera for a couple of weeks and have been honeymooning with this camera and its wonderful performance. This is my third DSLR (Canon was very fine, Nikon also pretty fine) Shooting in RAW and using photoshop 5 Elements (as well as the included not so shaby software)produced some very impressive pictures. Just ask my family and friends. I must say that Leica optics peek through loud and clear. The pictures are very real and subject matter is so well captured and defined. Colors are very Leica typical.
That being said, this is not your all purpose snapshot camera. It's a little big and heavy for that. There are lots of great little point and shoot cameras that will give this camera a run for the money. I keep one in my pocket all the time just for those quick "Kodak Moments" The L-1 is more of a tool for the creative artist and detail seeking photographer. (a nut like me). It allows you to go totally manual in the way of the old SLR's. It can receive all kinds of filters for landscapes and special effects. It also reverts back to all auto settings that yield very impressive results. I think that the marriage (arranged one at that) of Panasonic and Leica is excellent. Structual quality is excellent. 
Now I have learned that the beautiful and responsive Leica kit lens can be purchased seperately to fit other cameras that have the four thirds mount. (Olympus DSLR is a good example) But if you shop this camera carefully, you may find that this whole L-1 package comes out much cheaper. You camera nerds out there may find little faults in button placements or too little this and not enough that, etc. That's just fine. It can be said that every camera has its little faults if you look for them. That's why new models appear every time you turn around. Bottom line is the final result. To me those results thus far have been nothing short of jaw dropping. Comapared to some real megabuck Leicas and megasbyte Hassy's or whatever, it mostly all comes down to the photographer. The L-1 is a wonderful and pretty important piece of equipment. I love it and am waiting to get the new Leica 25mm f/1.4 lens to round out my camera bag and head for the mountains. By the way, get a high quality Polarizing filter and see what fabulous landscapes/seascapes you will generate on you SD cards with this L-1. (I use Sandisc ExtremeIII 2GB cards and shoot RAW)It felt good to say that.
If you enjoy photography, this is as nice as you can get for the money (even at twice the price)Go for it.
                                     Leopold.