ID: B00006F2MI-RI0O38ND2IEL3-A2H2KTM0OR6APW
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Grind-Brushed-Chrome
ReviewerID: A2H2KTM0OR6APW
ReviewerName: grizzlebees
Date: March 29, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 1.0
Title: Great for 2 years, then the electronics went out
Content:
As much time as I spend scouring user reviews on Amazon, I finally want to contribute back.  I've had this coffee maker for two years.  I bought it becuase a)it had a grinder and b)had a thermal carafe.  And by 'bought it' I mean it was a wedding present, but believe me a lot of research went into it before I put it on the registry.  For two years, it has been a pretty cood coffeemaker.  I don't have much to compare it too, since all of my previous coffeemakers were hot plates and glass.  But nonetheless, it brewed a nice cup of coffee.  
The grinder sucks.  It is pretty darn loud, and it grinded the beans way too much, leaving leaving a mess behind which was a pain to clean.  I would be pissed if I used the timer/program function, but I don't so its just as easy for me to use my burr grinder (which is way more quiet.)  My burr grinder also doesn't leave a mess behind and requires very little cleaning.  The other problem with the grinder is that it HAS to be in to use the coffeepot, even if you select the 'grinder off' option.  Which is annoying since sometimes its in the dishwasher and oh crap I can't make a cup of coffee with my already grinded beans without the empty grinder piece in.  So thats that.  I got over it.
The carafe is great, I love it.  I love that I can move it around and not have to keep on the hot plate.  It keeps the coffee pretty hot for a couple hours, starts to get lukewarm around the 3-4 hour mark (I should, but do not preheat the carafe).  The filter basket is fine.  It will occasionally will brew coffee all over the counter if the carafe is not situated nicely or if you overfill the water resevoir, but no big deal, I've destroyed many a pots of coffee before this and will continue to without--its all user error.  Its not really a 'slow pour' either.  It pours just fine.  
Here's the problem.  I can't figure it out.  Up to this point I would give it a 3 star rating: coffee is good, it does its job, the grinder sucks, but its a blade grinder and not a burr grinder and I knew that before I purchased.  Last week, while in bed, at 6 in the morning, the grinder went off.  All on its own.  Then it went off, then on, then off again.  Weird, why was my wife using the grinder in the coffeemaker?  I went back to sleep.   Woke up to realize my wife was not there when it happened, she was at the gym, so I checked the program button just to make sure it was not accidentally programed to go off at 6 in the morning, it wasn't.  Interesting.  Totally forgot about it.  A week later, at 2:30 in th morning, and let me remind you that this thing does resemble a chainsaw, especially if there are no beans to actually grind, it happened again.  Jumped out of bed, ran into the kitchen, and caught it grinding away.  NO reason, just wanted to grind.  And grind, and grind.  Unplugged it and went back to sleep.  During this time, mind you, I was still able to use it make a pot of coffee just like normal: grind the beans in the burr grinder, dump in the basket, hit 'grind off', then 'on'.  Finally, finally, it went total 'Maximum Overdrive' on me, absolutely berker, all it wants to do is grind.  It is now sitting unplugged awaiting a new coffeemaker (no grinder) from Amazon that I ordered (its another Cuisinart, hopefully it works out better, Im excited that I will have two carafe's).  I didn't bother to call support, though I guess I should.  As soon as its plugged in it either a) starts grinding on its own or b)gets stuck in program mode and will no longer brew a pot of coffee.  I'm assuming its an electronic problem.  Who knows.  I'm good at tinkering around with things but not when it comes to electronics.  I've given it a good cleaning and still no go.  One star = I shouldn't have to replace a 2-year old $120 coffeemaker b/c of an electronic problem.  It should work, for a very long time.
If anyone else has had this problem, please correct me.  But in the meantime, I say stay away from this self grinding moster.  Buy a separate grinder.  Buy a machine with simpler electronics.  The simpler the better.