ID: B000ALGM24-R2RMP75W7AM4PX-A1YQLAR46BS347
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Hunter-44550-7-Day-Programmable-Thermostat
ReviewerID: A1YQLAR46BS347
ReviewerName: N. Schimpf "mrschimpf"
Date: March 8, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: This is well worth the price; you'll get the money back in months!
Content:
I bought this thermostat in November as I audited how I could possibly save money on the natural gas bill this year, which in the past usually has averaged $150 per month and was hard to keep up with. We rent, but there's no contribution by the landlord to our gas bill, so it's up to us to figure out how to save money in a 140 year-old lower duplex apartment with plenty of air pockets and trouble spots.
Before I installed this we had the basic Honeywell classic disc thermostat which was likely around 40-45 years old, so I was expecting plenty of savings right away the moment I replaced that old thing with this. Setting it up was easy, though the manual was a bit unclear on which wire to put in, so I had to go by trial and error to get the right wire setup before I could activate it.
Once I did however, and after setting my energy use settings, it has worked beyond my expectations. The temperature stays where I need it to, not too low, not too high, with maybe a two-degree plus/minus variation between the actual measured temperature and what it is in the middle of the room. I now have a varied setup where it stays cool during the day, and then warmer at night, and it works out very well. The blue light helps in setting it in the dark and it's nice to be able to have an at-a-glance look at how long the furnace has been on during a day, week or month to compare with your bill to find out how much it does cost an hour to heat your home.
However I have definitely noticed the results of this thermostat on my gas bill. Where it used to loop and vary wildly during the winter months, it has now stayed steady within about the $75 per month range, counting both heating and cooking. It has taken the stress off worrying about setting the thermostat and it has more importantly kept everyone in the house warm when they wanted, but not roasted out of bed at inopportune times. Definitely buy this and be content and knowing that you're pretty much buying this for free after a few months as the savings roll back in.