ID: B0000SWABO-R2NRSV4H36ZG9V-A1K2579TI4QZRA
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL6984A-Harmony-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A1K2579TI4QZRA
ReviewerName: Patrick M. Mitchell
Date: June 2, 2009
Helpful: 11 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: WOW WOW WOW
Content:
OK, in the interest of disclosure, I must tell all of you that "I am not normal".  I have a vacuum fetish. (I also have relatively little carpeting).
Perhaps not a fetish exactly; more like an obsession.  At one point in my life, I owned 12 (seriously: Roomba, Royal hand vac, uprights, cordless, Dyson (blech)...).  It was part of my seemingly never-ending search for the vacuum of my dreams - the type of vacuum that would fill my cleaning days with thoughts of clouds, world peace and newborn kittens.
The Electrolux Harmony provides none of that, of course, but what it does provide is the best vacuum "experience" I've ever had.
When you remove the product from the box, you are struck with the attractiveness of the unit.  Yes, it is a good-looking piece of machinery.  I removed each piece, picked up the "Quick Start Guide" and had the whole thing assembled in 3 minutes, tops.  Now for the acid test.
I plugged it in, pressed the button and SERIOUSLY?  This vacuum is incredibly quiet.  My previous favorite sounded like a jet plane on take-off, this one sounds like a 1976 Cadillac cruising on a glass-smooth freeway.  Honestly, it really is amazingly quiet.  The gentle sound of the air moving into the nozzle overwhelms the sound of the motor - and that is just fine by me.  Even my cat didn't run! It's rather soothing, actually.
Cleaning performance and handling are first rate.  Excellent edge suction and wonderful maneuverability.  The canister glides on its wheels.  And, the cord extends with you - none of that pulling the cord out before you vacuum stuff.  Just plug it in and start vacuuming...you don't have to fight with the Harmony, just lead it like a willing dance partner.
If this were a perfect world, and money were no object, I guess my only "wish" would be for an old school woven-fabric over coil hose.  I just don't like the feel of plastic hoses, even though they weigh nothing, relatively.  Also, I would have liked a slightly more robust horsehair brush.  Maybe Electrolux could offer an upgrade for people who are into those sorts of things?
In any event, I (obviously) couldn't be any more pleased.  This vacuum is terrific - I can't imagine why anyone wouldn't be thrilled with the Electrolux Harmony.