ID: B000JO7RVC-R2H3I0YQ4MB4RW-A1D471XBB1D0I2
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-classic-Silver-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A1D471XBB1D0I2
ReviewerName: Bob M
Date: June 20, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good, not great
Content:
I recently bought a 160GB Classic because I'd filled my 2 year old 5G 60GB classic.  I'd hoped that it would be as good or better in every way, but with room for a lot more music.  If only life were so simple...
I got the extra space I needed.  It works with my existing iTunes library.  The interface is familiar (although I wouldn't call all of the changes improvements).  I like the new brushed metal styling.  I've read that the battery life is improved.
I'm not thrilled with the sound quality - I prefer the sound of my old 5G 60GB iPod.  The new Classic's sound is fine for casual listening through earbuds or middle-of-the-road headphones.  But if I'm really paying attention to the music, or am playing it through a good stereo or headphones, the new Classic's sound is - to my ears - more mechanical, more fatiguing to listen to than the 5G iPod.  I prefer the stereo imaging of the 5G.  Vocals have more body in the 5G.  I also find the Classic's sound to be a bit brighter, which some people might find gives a more detailed sound.
All stereo components have their own sound, and the new Classic is no exception.  I listen to a lot of jazz, blues, vocals.  I might have a different opinion if I listened more to other kinds of music.  My iTunes library is full of music that I ripped from my CD library, using Exact Audio Copy and LAME mp3 encoding software (VBR/V4 compression if that means anything to you).
I've decided to keep the Classic because I want the extra space and because I'll mostly use it for casual listening.  It's fundamentally solid and does what I expect it to do.  If I planned on using it as my primary music source, to play through a good stereo, I would probably have returned it and found a way to make do with my 5G.
Your mileage may vary - you'll only know by trying it for yourself.  If sound quality really matters to you, I would recommend that you be sure to run it through its paces while you still have the option to return it.  If you don't need the space and aren't wedded to iTunes, you might find a better-sounding alternative.