ID: B000ALMLUQ-R2AO4YGEC4XEB3-A8FWGIOFUUEI6
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Flavia-J10NBK-Fusion-Drinks-Station
ReviewerID: A8FWGIOFUUEI6
ReviewerName: L. Dean
Date: March 15, 2006
Helpful: 23 of 23
Rating: 4.0
Title: Flavia Fusion Blue, great in every way, except one
Content:
I've been using a high-capacity flavia machine at work for many months before deciding to take my flavia experience home. There are more than 200 employees in my office, and they use the flavia machine like crazy. I myself have quite enjoyed the teas and the flavored coffee. I'm not a caffeine drinker, and happily there are some tasty flavors to choose from.
Let me cover the details that were falsely conveyed in the previous review.
1. POURING HEIGHT: The adjustable height does, in fact, accommodate a travel mug. You simply remove the drip tray, and, voila, your 16 oz. travel mug slides in with ease.
2. FLAVOR: The coffee does not taste horrible. My 200+ co-workers seem to agree with that statement, given their relentless use of the machine that, I might add, has yet to malfunction. In the end, everyone has different likes and dislikes about their coffee flavors and richness. Luckily, Flavia currently offers 16 coffee varieties, 4 tea varieties, 5 well-being (aka tea) varieties, 5 indulgence varieties (i.e. choco and chai tea,) and they also provide different mixes and flavorings. My husband is a coffee snob and he needs his coffee insanely strong. He found his desires met in the Sumatra blend. The handy strength meter on each packet has this blend at a 5+ factor. He loves it and drinks it in his travel mug every morning. The only thing that has not worked out flavor-wise for us is the creamy topping. It tastes like a very watery skim milk.
3. PACKAGING: There is no measuring. You just slide the packet in place, press the button and off to work. Using the travel mug, you'll need to press the button twice - once on the largest volume setting, and once on the smallest volume setting. It still takes less than a minute to brew. The one drawback of the packing and Flavia as a whole: you can only get the coffee/tea packets from Flavia and eBay. (Thus my four-star rating.) However, the cost savings between what you would buy at a coffee shop or even a bag at the local grocery store is felt immediately.
4. SHIPMENT: The machine's packaging is not that cumbersome or painful to unpack. In fact, I had no trouble at all removing it from the box. After all, it is shipped for free from both Amazon and Flavia at the same price.
5. MACHINE SIZE: The machine's dimensions are indeed accurate. Granted it was a little deeper than I had anticipated, but it still fits neatly on my counter top.
6. NOISE: The machine is slightly noisy, but, again, the brew time is ~30 seconds tops! Not to mention there are five different capacity settings, so you can have a little bit of coffee in ~15 seconds, or a lot of coffee in ~30 seconds.
7. CLEANUP: There will be splattering. You can not avoid that with any coffee maker. It is not excessive and requires light wiping probably once/week. That's much better than having to clean a coffee pot and throw away filters with wet coffee grounds inside.
I would recommend this product to the coffee snob and caffeine hater. My husband and I are happy with it, and I love showing it to our guests everytime they come over. It's a fun little addition to our kitchen, and I just love it.
Coffee Snob: Try Sumatra
Caffeine hater: Try Lemon Calm (yum-my!)