ID: B000BYCGU2-R2FWYB5CG85T9L-ARJH76HV72MM
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Capresso-441-05-Coffeemaker-Metallic-Stainless
ReviewerID: ARJH76HV72MM
ReviewerName: Matthew Eichner
Date: August 27, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 1.0
Title: Good looks, poor coffee
Content:
I bought this coffee maker a 2 weeks ago, based on the reviews.  I figured I could deal with a few hassles for great coffee.  I wanted a thermal carafe pot to replace my Krups, which after a short 6 years expired on me. And, I wasn't concerned about how hot the coffee is in the cup, per se, as much as a great cup of coffee and the convenience of thermal.
For those looking at the Cuisinart, this review is very similar.  I purchased this one two weeks after the Cuisinart, and am similarly disappointed (though at a greater expense!).  What did I want? I like strong coffee, and particularly the flavor you can get from a Starbucks or Peets in-store brew (and yes, for you partisans out there, I know there is a big difference in flavor there, but each has its merit, and both come out flavorful). Ideally, something rich that has balance on the tongue, not just acidity on the sides/back of the toungue. I am aware that with a thermal, you sacrifice some heat in the cup itself...fine with that (per all the comments on this topic, if you like your coffee that hot, microwave it). My Krups did a good job here, but I felt the quality / design was shoddy overall. 
What did I get? Like the Cuisinart, good construction.  Perhaps a bit prettier, though I wonder at having to maintain all the stainless steel against water stains (just effort).  The rub, as with Cuisinart: after a couple weeks of use, I'd love to return it! Basically, the coffee comes out weak - though perhaps not quite as weak as the Cuisinart, it's splitting hairs - no matter how much grounds I put into it. It tastes a bit like taking a richer cup of coffee and adding water (similar in some sense to a cafe americano, but without some of the richer espresso behind it).  
Overall, I don't know enough about the coffee science to say "here is why this is happening." There were a lot of Ph D. sounding types who commented on brewing temperatures, and characterized this as a good temperature, etc.  I can only say that, in a direct comparison with the same beans, it doesn't deliver a cup of coffee nearly as rich as my Krups did. If you don't mind weaker coffee, this may be fine for you, and it is pretty. But if you like the in-house brews you can get a good coffee shops, you'll be disappointed. May have to go back to Krups despite the quality. This would be my third coffee maker purchase in a month...I hope you do better!