ID: B000WG1RKY-R2XHPDDYDXA2T1-A2KQ9FU7M6IX2X
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Generation
ReviewerID: A2KQ9FU7M6IX2X
ReviewerName: The Mariners Fan "Eriko"
Date: December 4, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 3.0
Title: Reliable, Portable, Does its job yet lacking in areas
Content:
I've had my Zune player for 2 years now, I've been through three ipods and two iphones during this time and I still go back to my Zune. It isn't the best mp3 player out there and my main reason for using it was the wifi capabiility and the radio function. Both are important to me, I enjoy having the ability to listen to the radio, especially when I'm tuning in to the television at the gym. Of course now, other players including the ipos have a radio as well. 
Pros:
Unlimited Zune pass for 14.99 a month. This has been my favorite feature of owning a zune. I can get as much music as I want for the cost of going to dinner with friends. You can also listen to clips longer than the :30 seconds itunes provides, this way I can get a real feel for the music before I pay .99 cents for it.
The preloaded channels you can download are also good. The channels are genre or activity focused, and give you a list of songs they've put together for you based on the title. Good for finding new music or artists.
The player itself is very sturdy and i've dropped this so many times but there hasn't been a scratch or dent yet. 
It keeps a charge for about 4 days of heavy usage. 
The headphones it comes with are much better than those plastic things the ipod provides. 
Cons:
The sound quality of the player is not a great as I hoped. Its very low and can sound muffled. There isn't any kind of equalizer or bass boost, it is just flat. 
I really wish you could use the zune application on an MacBook. The system now is so slow, even if my pc is running at optimal speed, it takes about 3 minutes for the entire thing to load up. Installing it took forever. 
The screen is small but I don't watch movies, I just listen to music.
The touch sensitive dial doesn't recognize fingertips inside of gloves. Even when I want to skip ahead it can't do it. It does allow you to manually press the dial to change tracks so I'm not understanding why I can't use a finger inside a glove. 
You have to buy the charger for the wall separately, they give you the cord which only allows you to charge using the computer.
So overall, once upon a time this player was top on my list. It had things that other players simply lacked. But now the main reason for keeping this player is the unlimited zune pass. I have yet to replace it because it gets the job done.