ID: B00006F2MI-R184XHZMD33KOQ-A1Z2U2ZKCYT1ZV
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Grind-Brushed-Chrome
ReviewerID: A1Z2U2ZKCYT1ZV
ReviewerName: Allisya
Date: November 18, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Nice to look at, Good Coffee, Worthwhile Purchase
Content:
OK, so I read some of the reviews on this product and I hesitated to buy due to some of the issues noted.  (Catching on fire??)  But I chose to do so anyway, because I felt that the positive reviews outweighed the bad.  I already had a Keurig brewer, but wanted something that could make larger batches, and the thermal carafe was exactly what I had in mind to keep the coffee warm.  
I have to say that I have been impressed with the machine.  I have found that the carafe keeps the coffee warm for hours, which saves me from making multiple batches through the day.  Yesterday I made some coffee at 1pm, and it was still pretty hot when I emptied the remainder out of the carafe at 9pm.  The grinder portion is fairly easy to clean if you clean it right away and do not let the coffee slurry dry onto the plastic.  Even then soaking in warm soapy water for a few minutes does the trick.  The unit is pretty easy on the eyes.  The stainless steel fit well with the appliances in my kitchen.  As some of you may know, there are several types of stainless, that clean differently.  The stainless on this machine will show smear marks if cleaned with an oily cleaner.  You are better off to clean this with a water based stainless cleaner, such as Easy Off stainless cleaner.  A soft cloth with warm soapy water will do the trick was well.  
I do have to agree that the machine is loud.  My husband was a bit startled the first time he used the machine because he was expecting a delay between pressing the button to power on the unit and the start of the grind.  However, now that he knows that, the sound does not bother him.  We have a pretty large home, and the kitchen is down a floor and on the opposite side of the house, so we really are not bothered by the grinder.  
All in all, this was a worthwhile purchase for the price.  When I only feel like one cup, I still have a Keurig machine as well, which makes equally good coffee!