ID: B000OKHY2S-R13WOPS64ZDVE6-A1C1LMYN2UVT1C
Category: AirConditioners
Product: SPT-SF-608R-Portable-Evaporative-Cooler
ReviewerID: A1C1LMYN2UVT1C
ReviewerName: Owen Sloan
Date: August 31, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: A cool and economical choice for small areas
Content:
My room is on a second story level with the sun hitting it from rise to set. During these summer months, it can be dry and up to the high 80s - low 100s in Southern California. I was desperate for relief but not able to afford an air conditioner, nor did I have a window to put one in. 
One thing that I like about this model is that its basic in design, nothing flashy but not ugly. I also like the easy openings for the ice/ice pack on top which is hidden by a plate that you can take off to fill and a small pocket on the right that you can open to add the water and ice. Very simple design. The buttons on top are easy to read and respond well to the touch. A beep noise is used to alert the user when you push the button or when the water level is low. It comes with a remote when you're just too hot to get up to push a button and a cool feature is the "Swing" mode for the fans, a slow paced back and forth motion that blows the breeze in multiple directions. Also worth mentioning is the extremely convenient Water Outlet plug in the back underneath. It screws on and off so all I do is carry the unit into the tub (unplugged of course), unscrew the Water Out plug and the water drains out with ease! Super easy to maintain.
Keep in mind, this thing does use water to cool the room so the humidity level will rise, which in some cases is a good thing. 
Also, I have a small room (90sq.ft.), so this thing is perfect because in all honesty you have to be pretty close to the fan stream to feel the cool breeze but my room is so small it is hard not to be in the fan's reach. 
I'm pleased with this product, it cools me when I throw ice in there and its nice and portable with the rollers. 
Does its job and I'm no longer dying in the heat of my room.