ID: B00006WNN6-R3ETBH71M7OQOT-A3O30FD2EKRBMM
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-DFH132-SafeHeat-Fan-Heater
ReviewerID: A3O30FD2EKRBMM
ReviewerName: Floating Weed
Date: January 10, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 3.0
Title: Low Quality
Content:
I've ordered many things from Amazon and this is one of the few that I have been really dissatisfied with the quality.
The dial that selects fan only, low power, or high power does not click into the hash marks, but instead clicks between the hash marks. Additionally it had a sludgy feel, making it hard to turn the dial. So I get nervous about which setting it is actually on. The selector dial is also a bit wobbly and made of a cheap plastic which reminds me of a cheap toy, which I do not want on a high wattage device.
Another issue is the "PTC ceramic thermal cut-off" which is not the same as the tip-over type cut-off I had on my old heater. When I turned the DeLonghi over on it's face, it did not cut off! Now I know that a "thermal" cut off is based on sensing the heat getting too high. But the face of the heater isn't flat so heat leaks out one side even if it has tipped over. Since the ambient air temperature was cold the thermal cut-off did not turn off the heater. Actually, I would like to have both a thermal cut-off and a tip-over cut-off. Watching the heater continue pumping out heat even when it had turned over made me less of a happy camper. It should be noted however that the base is quite stable and it's unlikely that it would tip over unless a dog ran into it or something.
I would give it two stars, but gave it three because it is a cheap item and not much can be expected.
Additionally, although I read comments in an online discussion by engineers who insisted that all such heaters are equally efficient, this DeLonghi heater just did not seem to put out as much heat as a basic electric heater I had long ago which simply had wires going back and forth a few times. That heater had selections of 1000 watts or 1500 watts. But this DeLongi heater did not even say in the short uninformative instruction pamphlet what the actual wattage was for the "low" and "high" power settings.
One good feature was it is pretty quiet. But I'm returning it because it just seems too low quality and the instruction manual is very terse and unreassuring.