ID: B000VRE7VA-R30QLGA2Y1KGTV-AROTQNRZ51CUU
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Sony-12-24MP-Digital-Camera-16-105mm
ReviewerID: AROTQNRZ51CUU
ReviewerName: Brendan A. MacWade
Date: March 7, 2008
Helpful: 20 of 20
Rating: 5.0
Title: No Regrets!  So glad I chose Sony.
Content:
I think it is a foregone conclusion that if you are invested in Canon or Nikon, then you have no compelling reason to even look at this camera.  But for the first-time SLR buyer, there are a lot of reasons.
I am a first-time digital SLR buyer.  I was looking at the Nikon D80 10.2MP Digital SLR Camera (Body only) for a very long time.  I was also considering the Sigma SD14 14MP Digital SLR Camera (Body Only), as I preferred its feel and ergonomics (and I love Sigma lenses, I had used them on film SLRs before).  I wanted an APS-sized sensor for my camera, so I din't consider any of the Four-Thirds models.  I wanted a full-size, rugged SLR.  Nikon, Sigma, Fuji, and Canon were all on my initial list.
But then Sony announced last year that they were going to make CMOS sensors for themselves and Nikon.  I knew that such sensors should improve a problem I have been suffering with CCD sensors for years, which is noise.  When I saw the first product pictures online, I immediately put it on my list of candidates.  
And when I finally got to hold an A700 in November, it was love at first shot.  The ergonomics are better for me than anything I have seen with Canon or Nikon.  The grip, shutter release button, and thumb and index finger wheels feel like they are in the perfect locations.  I love the speed.  You can turn it on and take a picture in under 3 seconds.  That's fast enough for an amateur like me.  And it has the sweetest shutter sound I've ever heard on a digital SLR.  Small details, but very appealing.
At a practical level, the camera's rich list of features and sensor stabilization make it a better camera than the D80, for just a few hundred more.  The only thing it lacks that pro photographers would want is an LCD status screen up on top.  But Sony assumed that amateurs like me wouldn't mind having the settings displayed on the giant 3" LCD on the back, and in my case, they were correct.
If you want live view and a second LCD status display, then the Nikon D300 is a logical choice.  It's a great camera for a little more money.  As far as image quality is concerned, I have to agree with the pro users that the Nikon D300 has fewer noise issues, while the Sony A700 has better color reproduction.  (The minor noise issues with the Sony can be fixed with some software updates, and we A700 users are waiting for both Sony and Adobe to address them.)  It's interesting since both cameras have a very similar sensor.  But the difference lies in how the images are processed in the camera.  Sony has a series of processing technologies in this camera, most of which work great for the amateur photographers who don't want to spend a lot of time with manual processing (Adobe Lightroom, Apple Aperture, etc.).  The pros out there are a little annoyed that this Sony assumes that they want advanced noise reduction and some extra preprocessing.  After all, an image in RAW format can have the noise reduced later on a desktop or laptop, why have the camera interfere?  
Again, it was a judgment call made by Sony that most A700 users would not be artists, but rather photojournalists and amateurs.  I can see the photojournalist influence in the camera's design.  By having separate buttons for White Balance, ISO, and Drive, the camera can be easily adjusted by a user who is in a hurry and/or wearing gloves. 
This is a camera made for outdoor use.  The Sigma SD-14, in comparison, is a camera that is best in a studio.  The Sigma is renowned for its use in the fashion industry.  But its menus are not as intuitive as the Sony.  And once outside, the Sigma has noise issues at 800 ISO.  I don't detect noise problems with the Sony until I get up to 1600 or 3200 ISO, depending on the light source.
I should mention that the menus in Sony A700 main LCD screen are beautiful, easy to access, and make sense.  There are multiple ways to access the grid of settings including the three dedicated buttons mentioned above.  Want to adjust ISO and then exposure?  Just push the ISO button, make the change there, and then use the joystick to highlight the exposure control, then center-click to save.  The wheels (one for index finger, one for thumb) can be programmed to adjust aperture and shutter speed however you wish.  You will be shooting crisp, professional looking photographs soon after you take the camera out of the box and charge the battery.  It immediately made me a better photographer. 
And for lenses, the news is just getting better.  Sony is releasing at least 4 new lenses this year, including a 'beercan' style 70-300 telephoto, and an amazing 24-70 f2.8 Carl Zeiss, which could be the ultimate full-frame portrait lens.  This camera is not full-frame, as it uses an APS-C sensor.  But Sony is getting ready to release the A900 full-frame professional SLR, and we're already seeing some lenses designed for it.  Also, Tamron and Sigma both support the alpha-mount (formerly Minolta), and their lenses are worth a look.  I highly recommend the Sigma 18-50 f2.8 as a great walk-around lens to start with.  And Sony has the wonderful 16-80 Carl Zeiss as a walk-around choice.  Sony also offers a lightweight 11-18 ultrawide zoom for architecture photography (indoor and outdoor).  And there are others in the pipeline.  All total, there are about 40 lenses you can purchase for this camera brand-new, and any used Minolta or other alpha mount lens will work as well (most notable is the famous Minolta 70-210 "beercan" from the 1980s).  
But no digital SLR should be purchased without picking it up and trying it out.  Get yourself a Compact Flash memory card, go to a camera store, and take some shots.  You might understand why we Sony users are excited.