ID: B0002WRHE8-RCKRIJ3RE04CC-A213WDKVKKSESU
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Heater-MH18B-Portable-Big-Buddy
ReviewerID: A213WDKVKKSESU
ReviewerName: Steven F. Godbe "Drain-Bamaged"
Date: January 15, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: A champion provider of cheap, reliable, and portable heat
Content:
I bought my first Big Buddy after my central heater failed just before a snowfall and hard freeze.  I rushed out to Northern Tool and grabbed the last one I could find on their shelves, a package of D batteries, and 8- 1 pound propane tanks.  Those tanks and the first set of batteries lasted the weekend, but I went back and bought a pair of 20lb tanks for $39 each, 2 filters for $10 each, a power adapter for $7, and a 12' bulk tank hose kit for $25. (I got mine from Northern Tool, but I could have easily ordered everything but the tanks with 2-day shipping using Amazon Prime.) And that's all we've needed ever since.  When we awaken or arrive home in the evening, I put it on high and within 20 minutes at the most, the house will be back to 70 F. Then I drop it to medium and in another 20-30 minutes it'll be up to 73-74.  And when it reaches that temp, I just set it to the low setting and it will maintain that temperature except during the coldest weather, during which it takes the medium setting to maintain a pleasant temperature.
The internal fan's bearings are noisy, but after a year, mine have quietened quite a bit.  And for those who have complained that on the High setting the floor beneath the heater gets too warm, I will simply point out that there are two conveniently-placed nail/ screw wall-mounting holes on the back of the heater to make make hanging it on the wall (as I've done) as easy as placing two nails or screws to hang the heater upon. This heater saves me at least $200/ month during the coldest months compared to electric heat costs where I live. Getting one of my 20lb tanks refilled runs $12-$15 here and one tank last me generally 4-7 days, even in my drafty, uninsulated 'project' home.
We have enjoyed it so much that I bought another for our RV and camp.  They're very efficient heaters, and having used the filters since the first time I used a bulk tank, I've had not a lick
of trouble, even though I've almost never remembered to turn off the gas flow at the tank 1st to
burn off the fuel in the pressure line.  I intend to change that practice, but... I'm just saying the fuel filters are a good investment and mine have apparently helped me avoid having to pay for my repeated sins.  
These, undoubtedly, were never designed to provide main heating for a home over even a single season. But my first unit is halfway through season 2 and runs like a champ.  Honestly, I think it's the best purchase I've made in years.  It pays for itself again every month in electrical bill savings.  It gives me another opportunity to tell my wife "I told ya so" every time we sit to pay the bills.  And that's almost as warm a feeling as the heater puts out itself, even if it sometimes leads to getting the 'cold shoulder'!  Buy one, read the manual, and enjoy.  You'll be glad you did!