ID: B000N3YBNQ-R2Z5LOK1XKCSE-A2VW4FYZILSXF2
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL5020A-Intensity-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A2VW4FYZILSXF2
ReviewerName: Jojoleb "jojoleb"
Date: August 12, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 3.0
Title: A stick vac on steroids and a great floor vacuum, but not as versitile as similarly priced items
Content:
The Intensity is Electrolux's answer to the call for a new, medium duty vacuum.  It tries to combine the convenience of an upright with the portability of stick vacuum.  It is a worthy piece of equipment, given its sheer power and cool design, but it is a little too pricey for what it is.  This is especially true, because in this price range you would expect that an upright vacuum would have a hose port and a series of attachable accessories.  Lack of attachments relegates this to a floor cleaning machine, only. (Electrolux and Amazon seem to understand this last point--as you will notice the original list price of this item was $299.  It seems to be falling like a stone, even as I type this.)
POWERFUL VACUUM
If there's one positive thing that you can say about this vacuum it is, "it sucks!"  This is no underpowered light-weight; the Intensity is a stick vac on steroids.   It has a 12 amp motor that can really remove dirt from a carpet on a single pass.   
CARPET
Excellent removal of pet hair, dust, dirt, and soil.  It has more than adequate suction. I only tested this on low and medium pile carpet, as that is what I have in my house.  The machine has incredible suction and and the head is at a medium height--good for most carpet but otherwise not adjustable.  
HARDWOOD FLOORING/LINOLEUM:
With the brush turned off, at the push of a button, the vacuum works equally well on smooth surfaces.  The exhaust comes out the rear, so there is no burst of air coming from above the head that tends to push dirt out of the way, as you can see in some low-cost upright vacuums.  
 
DESIGN:
And who would ever think that a vacuum could be described as cool?  This is not your mother's vacuum.  It has a futuristic look as if the top designers at Porsche and NASA teamed up with the Electrolux crew--the lines of the vacuum are a cross between a sports car and the space shuttle.  
EXCELLENT ERGONOMICS:
But it's not just about looks, the Electrolux team made everything here accessible and functional.  The buttons turning on and off the brush are all in the handle--very convenient.  This makes transitioning from carpet to hardwood seamless. These buttons double as the `on' switches, so there are no need for awkward foot pedals.  The off button is also on the handle.  The handle telescopes out generously to accommodate users of all heights. The pedal on the back to tilt back the handle is well placed and opposite it is the pedal to retract the spring-loaded cord.  There are even full bag and HEPA filter indicator lights, in a way-cool, medium blue.  There are large wheels in the back that are large enough to take on any carpet terrain but are rubberized so as not to scratch your bare floors.  It even folds down to nearly nothing so that storage is easy.
DESIGN FLAWS/PROBLEMS:
There are a couple of problems in paradise, however.  There is no carpet height adjustment.  Even though the vacuum seemed to do well on the carpet in my home, our carpet is mostly the short pile variety.  If you have a more generous pile, this vacuum might not work out for you.  
The Intensity has a sharp aerodynamic slant to its nose.  This definitely looks fly, but makes it impossible to vacuum under low furniture.  The vacuum is also  far heavier than it looks: it really is about 21 pounds.  That's okay, but given that all the weight is in the base and there is little weight in the handle, it is sometimes awkward to maneuver.  In spite of the convenient handle on the top of the vacuum, the sheer weight also makes the Intensity less convenient for cleaning stairs.  In terms of getting corners, the Intensity lacks side vents on its nose.  Even so, it seems to do reasonably well on corners--what it lacks in side vents it makes up for in sheer power centrally.  
The well-placed foot pedals for tilting the handle and the automatic cord retraction are made of lightweight plastic and feel flimsy.  My guess would be that these might be the first casualties with repeated use.  
The bag capacity is also quite small compared to a full powered upright--it's only one quart. I'm usually partial to disposable bags.  Yes, they are less environmentally friendly, but they are more tidy to dispose of and less likely to spew allergens hither and thither when you empty them.  (You know, the ones only moments ago you were removing from the environment with that expensive HEPA filter.)  In this case, however, given the small capacity, I think the Intensity would have fared better as a bagless vacuum.
AN ESSENTIAL, MISSING FEATURE:
The most egregious error in design is the lack of a hose port.  Most upright vacuums now have a port where you can connect a hose and other attachments.  This adds to the versatility of the machine in question and really adds value.  For me, this is what really knocks the Intensity down a couple notches to the 3 star range.  If you have need for more than a floor cleaner, this vacuum won't be enough for you.  You might have to supplement this with a low-cost canister vacuum.
SUMMARY:
All-in-all this is a competent floor vacuum, but the lack of attachments and other deficiencies mean that this item won't be the "only vacuum you need to own for most people."  It's a great second vacuum to have, but probably will not serve all your vacuuming needs.  Nevertheless, it cleans floors like a dream.
The breakdown is as follows:
Pros:
Excellent suction power
Good cleaning
Excellent ergonomics
Folds up for easy storage
Retractable cord
Stylish design
Hepa filtration system
Replacement bags and HEPA filters seem to be reasonably priced (at this point)
Cons:
Pricey for what it is
No accessory/hose attachment
No carpet height adjustment for thicker pile carpet
No effective edge suction
Small bag capacity
Some components are somewhat flimsy and may break
Harder to push than some
High cleaning head, difficult to get under objects