ID: B0009HNH2M-R3MB9SUGTK6BQ5-A1AADTGJ4BRQ64
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3590-Nozzle-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A1AADTGJ4BRQ64
ReviewerName: Bryan Dawson
Date: January 24, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Very Pleased So Far!
Content:
This is a great Little Vacuum! Yes it does have certain componets that could have been better engineered and made from better materials I think. That is the only reason I can not give this a 5 star rating.. I am sold on canaster type vacuums though...
 How I came to buy this Vacuum has a story behind it.. I had a Bissell Bagless that was a joke! After just a few minutes of running it you have to clean out the filters etc and you would loose all your suction power really quick. The suction was not that great to begin with.. You would be creating more dust then anything... Perhaps there are other better Bagless Vacs out there, but I was told by a Professional in the business that bags are still the best way to go.. The industry wanted to sell more Vacuums so they created the Bagless...
 I needed to do something and was actually looking for a Power head that I could use with my industrial shop vac and create maybe a central vacuum system in my house... I went to the Local Vacuum places here in Tulsa and priced some things.. Just for the Power head alone it was $225.00 The wand another $125.00 the Handle and hose.. $250.00 We are talking over $600.00 and still no vacuum.. SO you see buying a good vacuum can get very expensive very quick! I went on line and started looking around.. That is when I found this Vacuum...
 I read the Reviews on it...Some of the reviews actually cracked me up.. Such as being too loud... Powerful Vacuums make noise.. Get some ear plugs if it bothers you... One complaint was the belt on the power head.. I have had no problem and deliberately tried to get it to fail...  The bag holder seems rather deligate as well as some other componets, but what isn't made cheap these days? It is certainly not the Canaster Vacuum like the one my parents had I could ride around on as a kid!! (LOL) The bags are alittle small and filled up quick, but I think that was more of it actually picking up all the dirt, fibers and pet hair that had been left behind and was not being picked up by the Bissell.. I would say the full bags weighed about 5.lbs so not bad!
  The main complaint has been the hose coming apart... It is rather short.. Only 5' end to end. I have had no problem yet, but if it fails I will modify it and make it work with another hose.. 
As far as Bags, I bought type S Bags at Walmart.. The Honeywell Manufactured S bags you have to cut the card board flange i/8" on 2 sides to make it fit.. Still beats cleaning out filters every 5 minutes!! 
 The one thing I can say truly positive about this Vacuum is it has Outstanding suction power!! Nothing compared to the Bogus Bissell and the Dirt Devel uprights that came before this one.. You can decrease the suction power if you want to with this vacuum.. Also, I  Like the Bag indicator letting you know when you are full.. Even with a full bag, The suction is still powerful! Another thing I really like is the Cord retractor. No more winding up the cord! 
 It is a Darn shame this vacuum is getting such a bad rap! I am not certain I would pay over $200.00 for it.. Remember you get what you pay for..  Want a really good Vacuum? Go pay over $1,000.00 for one.. I did buy a refurbished one for $62.00 plus $27.00 shipping.  Seems to work just fine...  Alergy Be Gone did not include the attachments though.. Still no word from them?? 
 For me, I like this little Vacuum and it will work for me..