ID: B0000DD7P2-R1QC38Z1457BSB-A35CLKCUCRITU1
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Labs-Digital-Audio-Player
ReviewerID: A35CLKCUCRITU1
ReviewerName: K. Hand
Date: June 27, 2004
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 4.0
Title: Too new to give 5 stars
Content:
OK, I bought this yesterday and it is my first mp3 player, so I'm a little biased.  Of course it is working great at this point.  I love the idea that I can put my entire CD collection in this little player.  I was all ready to buy the iPod (even had the guy start ringing it up) when I went back to the computer department to inquire about a case.  I was already cringing at the fact that every accessory for the iPod was sold separately and my total for a $299 player was already over $400 because of necessary accessories.  A CREATIVE rep was in the dept and showed me his Zen.  Maybe I was duped, but I was attracted to the fact that all I had to get was the player because it came with everything.  I saved about $200 and just used a car adaptor from my existing portable Aiwa CD player to play the Zen in the car.  I didn't like the software and have been using the Windows Media Player to organize and copy all my CDs.  My needs are pretty simple, I'm just looking for ease, price, portability, and capacity.  I think I found all those things with my new Zen.  I am concerned when I see people writing about broken headphone jacks and pop-off covers.  I do recommend covering yourself with an extended warranty.  I got mine at Best Buy, where they have a great service dept.  As far as dropping it--don't.  That is just common sense.  Although this morning I took it flying with me in my uncle's little Cessna and it slid off my lap onto the floor and got wedged next to the door while we were at 6500 feet in the air.  I got it out with no problem and with no damage.  HOWEVER....I am a big enough person to admit mistakes...and will definitely be writing another review if anything negative happens.  What is boils down to is ask yourself what you want and get it.  They all pretty much do the same thing, just with different capacities, they all have certain design flaws, and it is always good to get an extended warranty if you're feeling nervous as a first-time buyer.  Good luck!