ID: B000SKQOTI-R262SI3V9I8U3X-A24PTVSZSM8968
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-Digital-Reduction-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A24PTVSZSM8968
ReviewerName: J. Dykstra
Date: November 29, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Extremely flexible camera
Content:
I grew up on old film SLRs with manual lenses. So when I finally had the opportunity to get a digital SLR, I was looking for something with a little flexibility. After looking at a number of cameras on-line, I settled on this one for a number of reasons. First of all, it takes 4 AA batteries which gives a number of options. While the battery life of NiMH rechargeable batteries can be short if the batteries are not new, this is a cheap option. With a good set of rechargeable batteries freshly charged, I can get a lot of shots. If you want longer life, you can use lithium batteries. Second, this camera takes the famous Pentax K mount lenses which means that you have access not only to the newest autofocus lenses designed for digital cameras, but also many decades worth of high quality manual lenses that were designed for a number of cameras with the Pentax K mount and which are available at great prices used. Using an older manual lens requires some setup in the menus and some practice getting the exposure right, but the results can be outstanding. These two things were the biggest selling point for me. Additionally, the camera takes SD cards which are now more or less the norm and can be bought cheaply and a number of other peripherals are available such as flashes, cable releases and AC adapters. 
There are a few small drawbacks to the camera. Many reviewers have already mentioned the fact that the camera has a relatively low resolution compared to some of the latest digital SLRs and that many of the features are menu-driven. Additionally, I have found two other issues that are somewhat inconvenient. First of all, there is no PC plug-in for a slave flash, so if you want to use an off-camera flash, you have to get an adapter. Second, the focusing screen that comes with the camera does not have the old-fashioned split-screen in the center so it is very difficult to focus with manual lenses, especially in the telephoto range. I solved that issue by getting an after market split-screen focusing screen from Katzeye. All of these issues are minor and can be gotten around. 
There are a few things you should be aware of if you get this camera. First of all, there is a limit to how much voltage the hot shoe can take so if you get an accessory flash, make sure you either get the Pentax-approved flashes or do some research on the voltage of the flash you hope to use. Second, some Ricoh autofocus lenses have a propitiatory autofocus connection that has to be removed or it will cause the lens to be stuck to the camera. Third, like all digital SLRs, the sensor can become dusty or dirty. It can be cleaned, but you have to follow approved procedures or you can risk damage to the filter over the sensor. 
If you are looking for an excellent digital SLR that offers a ton of flexibility, definitely check this one out. Pentax has long been known for quality photographic equipment and this camera is no exception. If you require a camera with higher resolution, check out some of Pentax's newer models which offer the same flexibility. The kit lens that comes with the camera does a very nice job for most standard photos, but again, the great selling point of this camera is the mountain of accessories that can be used with it.