ID: B000G1CY02-R1K6OEV3PKXW1S-AGY9VMSI5VU9Z
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-HHP1500-Safeheat-Mica-Panel-Heater
ReviewerID: AGY9VMSI5VU9Z
ReviewerName: JBB
Date: December 1, 2007
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great heater, great delivery
Content:
We bought this heater a few weeks ago - like others who have written comments, we use it for a baby's room.  We wanted the silent heating, and the safety. 
First, I want to note that this has been a very good shopping experience.  We received the heater within 40 hours with regular shipping from Amazon. Remarkable.  
As to the unit:  We mounted the heater on the wall, which, using the four anchors supplied, makes the heater adequately secure.  The heater itself is much larger than we expected, and it does not exactly blend in with the room (!)(I don't live in a Battlestar Galactica set) .... but that hardly seems significant.  It adds the 10-odd degrees we need to the room, and it does so on nearly the lowest setting.  The thermostat feature, once you figure out how to set it just right, works perfectly well, and holds a uniform temperature (With that said, though, the next generation of this heater should come with a true thermostat).  The sound it makes is just a muted crackling when the unit clicks on, and my son (24 months) has never seemed even to notice it.  Final comment:  If you are running the heater at a low setting, you really can touch the front briefly, when it is on, and not get burned.  All in, for this kind of application (silent heat in a smaller room) this seems like a really good technology.  
One caution:  Before you use it, you should run the heater on high someplace that is well ventilated, and for at least several hours.  Meaning, at least 3 or 4 in my experience.  The heater makes no smell at all now, but the smell in the first couple of hours was pretty nasty.    The manufacturer does note this need on the front of the unit (with a sticker) and in the manual, which is good, but you may need to do even more than the two hours they recommend.  You absolutely would not want that smell in a baby's room.
All in all, for the money, this gets an A.  
I also bought one of the Holmes micathermic heaters, at Target, for Grandma's house, and have the same comments overall.  Equivalent units and features, but I don't think you can hang the Holmes unit on a wall.