ID: B000CRZCPO-RYANXHVG8C7H3-A2XRMQA6PJ5ZJ8
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-200mm-3-5-5-6G
ReviewerID: A2XRMQA6PJ5ZJ8
ReviewerName: Roger J. Buffington
Date: August 25, 2006
Helpful: 119 of 119
Rating: 5.0
Title: Already one of the great ones.  A great deal.
Content:
The Nikon D200 is a professional camera which is also aimed at the serious amateur digital photographer.  It is essentially the upgrade unit from the D100/D70s, and it incorporates solid improvements over those excellent cameras.
The most obvious upgrade feature of the D200 is the 10.2 megapixel images that it creates.  The advantage of more megapixels is twofold.  Firstly, many digital photographers "crop" their images in post-processing.  For example, if you take a photograph of a flying bird such that the bird occupies only a quarter of the image, you may want to crop the image such that you eliminate half of the image, leaving the bird dominant.  More megapixels means more detail will survive the cropping, which is essentially a form of magnification.  Secondly, if you wish to print images larger than about 8 x 10, more megapixels again equates to more detail.
In my opinion the most impressive improvement in the D200 over the D100/D70s is the autofocus system.  The D200 gives the user numerous different autofocus modes over and above those offered by the D100/D70s.  These are designed to make it easier and more effective for the user to photograph moving and erratic subjects, such as fast-flying birds, or athletes on the playing field for you sports photographers.  This, combined with another big improvement of the D200--the fabulously bright and wide viewfinder--makes it much easier to photograph difficult fast-moving subjects.  The D200 viewfinder is wonderfully bright, making acquisition of difficult subjects much easier.  Combined with the improved autofocus, I am bringing home more "keeper" photographs of erratically flying birds in which these photos are in perfect focus.
The D200 also offers up to 5 frames-per-second continuous shooting, and has a big buffer so that the camera will not slow down to write to the CF card.  This is really useful when shooting fast-moving subjects.  When combined with the excellent autofocus system, the user can shoot fast shots with confidence that most or all of them will be in focus.  This is another improvement over the 3 FPS of the D70s.
Another obvious improvement of the D200 is its body construction.  The quality and durability of the D200, which is housed in an all-metal body which is weathersealed at all critical points, has to be experienced to be appreciated.  The unit is built very solidly, but happily does not sacrifice weight for durability like some Nikons (remember the F5?) have done in the past.  Despite being all-metal, the D200 is light enough that you will probably not mind carrying it all day on vacation (like I like to do) or during outdoor photo shoots.  Although this camera body is of pro-quality, it nevertheless retains enough lightness and is sufficiently compact that amateurs will not feel overwhelmed by its size or weight when carrying it around on vacation or whatnot.
Other reviewers have noted that the D200 is much more similar to Nikon's other professional cameras, and I am inclined to agree with this.  I am only an enthusiastic amateur, and I am convinced that the D200 is about as much camera as virtually any amateur can effectively appreciate.
The D200 menu system is very good, and it is an improvement over the already very good menus contained in the D100/D70s.  The camera allows the user to set up four "banks" of settings that are completely independent of one another.  Thus, you can have one bank with settings optimized for portraits, one for fast-moving subjects (e.g. birds), one for landscapes, and one for point-and-shoot "party" shots. (This is how I have mine set up, credit to "Nikonians").  While this sounds complicated, the way Nikon set up their menus actually made this quite easy to grasp, and after about thirty minutes of playing with the camera I was quite proficient with the menus.  Good job Nikon.
By the way, the exposure system on the D200 is also an upgrade from the D100/D70s.  Nikon really spared no effort to make the D200 a quantum leap over its already excellent line of amateur DSLRs.  This is the first amateur digital camera that I have used that seems to get exposures as good as my old F5 film camera (one of the great Nikons during the film era) although the D100 and D70s came pretty close.
With the D200 Nikon continues its tradition of offering a nice on-board flash.  This flash is fine for snapshots and fill-flash of close subjects.  Serious shooters will want either the SB-600 or SB-800 external flash units.  Again, here Nikon has given the camera pro features--the D200 built in flash can act as a "command" unit for other flashes.  Serious amateurs and pros will appreciate this feature.
As if to prove that it re-engineered the D70s/D100 from the ground up, Nikon also improved the battery situation with the D200.  The D200 battery has built in voltage testing, which means that the battery indicator on the D200 is actually accurate, a first in my experience with any DSLR camera.  This means that when it says that the battery is half-discharged, that is actually the case.  (On other, earlier units, when the battery indicator moved from "full" this usually meant full discharge was imminent.)  This is important because the D200 does go through a battery significantly faster than did the D100/D70s.  This is partly because of (yes, another upgrade) the larger LCD viewer on the back of the camera, and partly just to the more complex electronics in the unit.  Serious users will want to buy one or more extra batteries to stash in one's pocket or vest.
The 18-70 DX kit lens is a very nice little lens.  It features some ED glass for better contrast in the images.  Since it is a DX lens, it is small and light, while sacrificing nothing in image quality.  This is a great first lens or walkaround vacation lens for portraits, snapshots, and landscape shots.
One very minor quibble with the D200.  The default sharpening settings are somewhat soft.  Some users have been unhappy that when they take the D200 out of the box and start shooting, that their images are not tack-sharp, as to be expected from a high-end camera.  Not to worry, simply set sharpening to +1 or higher in the camera and it will produce sharp images.  Better yet, experiment in post-processing with sharpness settings.  Bottom line is that the unit will and does produce tack-sharp images, but not with the default menu settings.
Overall, the D200 is a pro camera at amateur pricing.  It is used by pros and serious amateurs, and with its feature set and impeccable quality and ergonomics, it is an impressive offering by Nikon.  This is one of those cameras that is really fun to use, and it produces fine, sharp, and bright images limited only by the skill of the photographer.  Highly recommended.