ID: B000MD4B0A-R2F4LFLLCZ53D6-A3F7USIDJBR8WU
Category: MP3Players
Product: MEIZU-Portable-Video-Music-Player
ReviewerID: A3F7USIDJBR8WU
ReviewerName: nobody ya know "kuz kuz"
Date: October 2, 2007
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Superb! Nothing can beat the quality and price.
Content:
this unit has superb sound and video quality.
The supplied ear buds are just fine and you don't need to buy anything else. The sound volume can be adjusted to this side of blowing your brains out.... yeah, with deep bass!~
Software suck big time along with the instructions.
Ignore the software and manual and just play with the unit until you discover how it works. Chinese to English translation by a software engineer is about bad as it can get. I don;t know why they don't spend a few bucks and hire some English person to go over the manual after the translation. 
They got the software from the net FREE that's included on the cd disc installation. It's not made for an average person and I guarantee that you don't know what to do with it. The player software did not install and can not be found or any way to install where you could convert video to their format. All you have is a bunch of tools that's useful for programmers and make no sense to any of us. Even so, their conversion section is crippled and the video conversion plays 90 degree offset. I have no idea what was the reason for this. Your video plays sideways! It's soooo idiotic this software that I removed it immediately.
Still trying to find something else to do the convertion, but no luck so far. None is accepted by the player.
Let me say this again; the software for video conversion is sooooo bad and makes no sense at all. It does not convert correctly and there is no help on their site. The entire software is totally idiotic.
If you are interested in videos for this player, either find a convertion software that works of buy a ZUNE player. Seems to me that these mfg, including other name brands are going out of their way to have screwy convertion and difficulty to make a simple convertion to video.
However....
This little unit does everything I need and works flawlessly.... right now.
All music plays pristine clear but I haven't been able to add any video with their software. It's nothing but a nightmare to add a simple video.
Clearly, this product will not accept video by converting well.
I managed to convert with great difficulty some video but I would not recomend it to anyone to go through all that nonesense.
Still, it's a hit an miss to download video and am not able to do a good copy that plays. This is not to say that the video is bad, on the contrary, the promo video is just gorgeous, clean, sharp as a razor blade. So, the potential is there to see great video, but how to get there is a mystery. It would have taken a little effort to write a converter or just play WMV files. It's not that big of a deal.
Company support is zilch.... nada.
They're in China. They really don't speak English and the company is small. 
There is a meizu forum of sort, where you can see the struggle of people having a hard time with the unit. Mostly video problem. Go find it and read the problems. Then make a decision if you're interested to fight this thing.
If you want music and still pictures then it's a good deal.
Trasfers are simple drag and drop as mentioned.
Screen colors and resolutions are astounding.
Don;t let the small size fool you.
You can watch movies with great clearity and wall to wall sound... providing it will accept the correct format.
Update: a few days later.
As much as I like this unit for it's great sound and small frame, I think a Zune would have been better for video and the ease of transfers. I think that's going to happen when the new Zune will be available after October 2007.
AS with any Chinese products, the software is really bad. Instructions or manuals are equally bad. For support, don't look to them.
You're on your own.
I still give 5 stars for the function of the unit and three zeros for the software and user interface... that's worthless.