ID: B00076S36U-R1TOROLJPAXZ1O-A1ZISGE8BPSZMT
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Sengoku-HeatMate-Omni-Radiant-Portable-Kerosene
ReviewerID: A1ZISGE8BPSZMT
ReviewerName: Cool "Templeboy"
Date: November 6, 2009
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: Did everything right!
Content:
I'm a young kerosene lamp collector but never encountered an unboxed Kerosene heater before. Decided to give it a try this winter since many gas stations here in Philly dispense undyed and untaxed 1-K cheaply ($2.80 in October 2009) and heating bills last few years are $200/month on average for our well insulated house. After reading reviews around, I was pretty settled on this omni-radiant design, but had reservations with the actual burning time due to short wick per this site and Mile Stair's site (highly recommended).
Then I had a chance to pick one up several weeks ago. Only $10 as the seller was moving so I figured there's little to loose. It's a 2005 run in like new condition. While it's the first time I got my hands on a kero heater, mechanically there is really no difference between it and any center draft lamps, save everything is in bigger size! Lighted it up easily and enjoy the cheap heat every since.
Two things I'd like to elaborate on this heater:
1. It burns 15 hours on a single fill when the outside is in 40s and 50s and my 600 sqft second level is toasty 75-78 degrees with a slightly crack window! 
   Update on Dec. 1, 2009: The kerosene gauge on the heater must be designed for trial lawyers, not actual usage. If one religiously follow the gauge from "F" to "E", s/he may get 7 hours out of "one full tank" at most. Nowadays I fill it well into the red zone on the gauge and burn it down another 3-4 hours after "E" mark. This way I can easily get 15 hours. In case you wonder, the record time I timed is almost 19 hours (!) on Low setting before kerosene completely runs out and it starts to smell due to dry burn. 
2. I start and extinguish the heater in the garage so there is no smell in the house. The heater is delightfully light-weight for a grown man to carry around very carefully. In comparison, my small 14-candlelight kerosene lamp gives off detectable smell. Of course the burn efficiency is different purposefully.
Maybe I'm lucky but this thing is doing everything right. This winter I will save hundreds of dollars easy with this baby. 
I've been shopping at Amazon.com since its inception. This is the first time I'm posting a product review even though I did not purchase through the site. Need I say more on what kind of recommendation I'm giving?!