ID: B000GTR2F6-R1MGGE0F9U16DU-A2Q8J8IL6V9M5T
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Platinum-Single-Cup-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: A2Q8J8IL6V9M5T
ReviewerName: K. Lechliter "Walker Boh"
Date: February 5, 2007
Helpful: 8 of 26
Rating: 2.0
Title: Big Price in Little Flavor
Content:
I hope Kurt Russel doesn't sue me for that title.
I decided to take the leap into pod brewing systems with this as I received a gift certificate to help with this purchase along with several other discounts. I think I went out of pocket $90 and I still feel cheated.
The basic problem is that there are not enough grounds in the pods- even the pod that allows you to add your own grounds. Instead of K-Cups they should have said K-Scoops as the amount of coffee in the pods is FAR too miniscule to have much flavor impact on the water. I ran with the recommended Dark Magic and Sumatra "Extra Bold" blends, but even they fell way short. I tried to make this work for about a month and then gave up on it.
If you're looking for a cool blue night light that makes instant hot water from a pressurized resevoir (PV=nRT) then this might be for you. If you're looking for strong coffee look elsewhere. If you like coffee-flavored water then this is probably for you.
I'm actually brewing manually with a funnel (my organic chemistry Bodum glass vessel broke- I think I've broken EVERY piece of Bodum glass I've ever owned), a gold cone filter (left over from the $50 Bodum MDC- Manual Drip Coffee-maker), and a Thermos 12 oz stainless steel cup (The Holy Grail of coffee cups, which reminds me...I need to buy another pair of these gems).
This all started with my "voluntary" recall of the 8 cup Starbucks Barista brewer. If I had it to do over again I would NEVER have turned in the Barista. It made great coffee ALL the time and I could overbrew if I wanted to and have coffee soup. Stupid is as stupid does. I think I'm going to buy a Black and Decker Smart Brew and just make 1 cup at a time (like I do now) so I don't have to try and find another thermal maker as I haven't found one yet that hasn't been panned in the reviews.