ID: B000VDQ38E-R4TFG0OP4FXDK-A1FTC1DR3X656D
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1FTC1DR3X656D
ReviewerName: Kris Fassa "sullenday"
Date: March 23, 2008
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: Best Vacuum Ever!!
Content:
I spent about four hours researching different vacuum cleaners trying to find the one that would work best for our situation. My boyfriend and I have an apartment that's fully carpeted, with the exception of kitchen/bathroom. We also have a lovable little Whippet/Terrier mix that sheds like mad and has terribly flaky skin. Making his dog food from scratch has helped a little but we still had his wiry little hairs everywhere! The dirt devil I had brought with us was great on the area rugs and hardwood floors we had before but with all the carpet now it just didn't get the job done.
We brought the Bissell 3920 home and started to assemble it.  The reason it gets 4 stars is because the pieces on the first one were not manufactured properly so it would not fit together right. Took it back to Best Buy and it was exchanged for another of the same model. This one fit together in about 10 minutes without any problems. We also opted for the extra 4 year warranty through best buy just in case anything happens down the road.
Now our living room isn't huge but like I said this dog really sheds. I emptied the dirt cup 9 times before I was satisfied! It's really gross to see all the stuff you walk, sit, and lay on coming up out of the carpet!  I have allergies so all the dust and dog fur really makes it hard to breathe and leaves the eyes red and watery. After the initial run with it I can see the difference already. Like some others mentioned if you have severe allergies the traditional bag vacuum may be better, but honestly if you empty the cup before it's completely full there really isn't a lot of spillage.  I'd suggest emptying the cup with the vacuum by the trash, not hard for us especially with the trash being on the tiled kitchen floor. 
For those of you who really like things to be clean and work their best I suggest taking out the removable parts and rinsing them off as shown in the manual. A little extra maintenance will extend the vacuum's life and just make life easier with it. Took me an extra 10 minutes at most to rinse the parts, then I just let them air dry while I did some other stuff. 
I would recommend this suction beast to anybody that likes their carpets clean and especially those with pets that like to shed! Even my boyfriend was impressed with the performance of this vacuum and agreed it was money well spent.