ID: B000TDTF18-R3UFPY9IU7S7XH-A3QRVPGJD2YOTE
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: DeLonghi-DCF212T-Coffeemaker-Convenient-Access
ReviewerID: A3QRVPGJD2YOTE
ReviewerName: Doug Seidler
Date: May 2, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 1.0
Title: DeLonghi will not support their own products
Content:
Earlier this week my coffee maker stopped brewing half-way through a 8 cup pot. In addition, the warming plate would not heat up.  I called customer service and was told that my coffee maker was out of warranty and that broken warming plates were not serviceable. The customer service representative told me "there was nothing that DeLonghi could do to help me".
After a bit of research I determined that most coffee maker malfunctions like my problem are caused by a blown thermal fuse or a broken heating element. I'm sure DeLonghi is aware of this possible cause and effect. I opened the bottom of the coffee maker and confirmed that one of the two thermal fuses (SeFuse SF214E) had indeed blown. I decided to replace the fuse with a new one to see if the fuse simply failed pre-maturly or if it failed because of a more significant problem with the heating element. A quick trip to Radio Shack and $2 later, I was back home with a new fuse which took less than 30 minutes to install.  Ten minutes later I finished brewing a new pot of coffee confirming that the problem with my coffee maker was a faulty thermal fuse. 
It is unfortunate that a $50 appliance is deemed unfixable by its manufacturer because of the failure of a $2 part. DeLonghi has made poor decision in not standing behind its products. DeLonghi should provide its customers information that might prevent unnecessary disposal of your fixable products in landfills. For example, if DeLonghi refuses to fix its own product, they could point customers to a local service company that could help them diagnose and replace a blown fuse.
DeLonghi define the lifetime of your product as 1 year which seems absurd my any measure of the word lifetime. While I hope to keep my DeLonghi coffee maker working for many years (it brews a wonderful cup of coffee), when it does eventually become unserviceable, be sure that my next appliance will not be a Delonghi.  
DeLonghi has lost a customer for life.