ID: B000TGDGLU-R2HK0GAIQNY90S-A2PRJPJT9XOJNV
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-EW7707CM-Oil-filled-ComforTemp-Technology
ReviewerID: A2PRJPJT9XOJNV
ReviewerName: Nalini Davangere
Date: February 9, 2008
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Good value
Content:
This is a pre-assembled well designed and steady efficient heater. Measures 16" wide but manufacturer reccommendations require 3 feet of clear space in front of it and above it. The smell of toasted oil dissipates after a day of use set on LOW, the manual reccommends 2 hours on HIGH to achieve this burnoff. It has a two pronged polarized plug rather than a grounded plug, so easier to use. The power drawn is 120V - 60Hz -1500w and yes it is made in China.  
Shipping is the only real complaint I have and thats Amazon not the manufacturer. I got two, and each time it was poorly packed into the large Amazon box. Rattling around packed only with a piece of paper!!!! Luckily, the manufacturer's box holding the heater is packed very well with form fitting shock absorbing styro, but I'm sure it suffered knocks on the trip--the large Amazon shipping box arrived at our loading dock both times looking like it had been opened or crushed and our receiving manager was not impressed. A complaint slip was sent back each time to notify them.. It would be much improved if they just packed it with those bags of air instead a thin piece of paper. After all, being oil filled you would think Amazon would precautions to avoid springing a leak and baggies of air weigh next to nothing.   The first has worked fine for two days, the second one did have its styrofoam block break apart from a knock apparently, but the heater was undented and has been on for a full night with no complaints. Still....
You actually need only use it on low or medium, as it heats steadily  and warms a 60 degree room in 10-20 minutes to a comfortable temp. After being plugged in and set on LOW, the plug and cord dont even get slightly warm which suprised me. The DeLonghi  get slightly warm after an hour when the heater is set to MEDIUM, however, which is normal according to the manufacturer in the manual. Overnight while on MEDIUM setting it warms an entire large room and event akes the edge off of adjoining rooms like hallway and kitchen. This is just enough for someone who has asthma to breathe easier without being bothered by the cold air or wasting energy.  Still havent seen my energy bill yet so we'll see.
We liked it so much after I got the first one, we bought a second one. We keep each heater on a separate circuit and no higher than medium setting and we wont blow a fuse! The thermostat is efficient and accurate and it has a thermostat version of cruise control as well. Very nice. The thermo cruise control has a large dial and light which is bright enough to serve as a night light.