ID: B0006HIILA-RQ7GIZTRSVF7Q-A3TX87LQTRC4U8
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-EW0507-Safeheat-Advanced-Oil-Filled
ReviewerID: A3TX87LQTRC4U8
ReviewerName: Magnus Opus
Date: November 2, 2005
Helpful: 70 of 70
Rating: 5.0
Title: Electricity vs. natural gas
Content:
Our main home furnace runs on natural gas.  With energy prices (particularly gas) sky-rocketing, we knew we were in for an expensive winter for heating bills.  Doubly concerning is the fact that we have a small toddler who doesn't yet know how to pull the covers over her.  Its only been a few weeks now so its a bit early to tell, but with temperatures dipping into the 40's this heater is a serious contender for the best purchase we've made in a long time.  I bought 3 units.
The settings are easy enough to use.  Not particularly great, but ok for what it needs to do.  It has a dial that goes from 1 to 6 and two toggle switches.  Throw one switch for low, throw the second for medium, and throw both together for high.
PROS:
1.  With night time temps outside hovering around 40F, we set the thermostat in the living rm to 68F.  That means our master bedroom (18ft by 18ft, approximately, with vaulted ceiling), which sits over a poorly insulated garage SHOULD average around 65F.  With this thing running on low setting "3", the temperature at various times through the night never got below 72F.  (bedroom digital thermometer)  Incredible!
2.  Its radiative, so it doesn't seem to dry out the air as much as usual convective (blowing air) heaters.  A VERY big deal if you have kids in the bedroom with you.
3.  Only had it for 2 weeks so far, this last month's natural gas bill went from $40 during the mild late summer early fall heating when the only the hot water heater was using gas (Sept) to $50 for October when the furnace was running!  The electricity bill jumped about $10 over the month.  This is with 3 units running in the evenings and at night.  Like I said, jury is still out till we get to Jan or Feb since gas prices dipped a bit in Oct and we've been wearing sweaters around the house, but I was bracing for a BIG change.  Last year around this time my heating bills per month were around $90.  (Wash, DC area)
CONS:
1.  The base is a little unstable on thicker carpet.  This is because the wheels are a little too close together. 
2.  Numbers on dial are a little hard to read in low light.