ID: B00006HYWR-RH6U5FUC9ZVW3-AGVB3UZIPFHEF
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Labs-NOMAD-MuVo-Player
ReviewerID: AGVB3UZIPFHEF
ReviewerName: Sheldon
Date: October 13, 2002
Helpful: 20 of 20
Rating: 5.0
Title: Amazing Product
Content:
I got the 128MB version of this product, but except for storage capacity both models are the same.  The first thing that gets you is the size.  The photos don't do it justice.  Like, it's really, really small. We're talking 1 1/4 x 2 3/4 x 1/2 (inches).  And, it weighs almost nothing.There have been some negative comments on this product, but I feel the negatives are what make this product what it is.  You see, you have to look at this thing as a USB memory module -- that just happens to play music.  One complaint has been the lack of a display, but a display would just make it bigger.  Another complaint has been the lack of a memory.  When you turn it off it starts back at the beginning.  Well, I assume a memory feature would use up battery life.  And another complaint has been a lack of controls.  I mean, how many controls do you need?  It's so simple I had it up and running 10 minutes after opening the box, and that includes loading files onto it.It does feel kinda cheap (plastic), but the controls work well, and the only problems I've had are sometimes when you click to move up or down a track it might miss by a track.  Fast foward is not audible, so you hold the button and guess.  Otherwise, it works extremely well.Another thing that makes this product unique is that the memory module separates from the battery compartment and plugs right into a USB port.  No drivers are needed for Window Me/2000/XP, but you will have to load the included drivers if you use Windows 98.  I work on a lot of computers and often have to transfer files from one to another.  The MuVo makes this a snap.  And hey, if you happen to load a few MP3 files on it you can listen to some tunes while you're walking from one office to another.  Sound quality is determined by how good your MP3 files are and your headphones.  I have a pair of Sonys that do sound better than what comes with it, but not much.  And here's a tip:  The free version of sofware that came with your CDRW may not rip MP3 files at 128kb (about the lowest quality that sounds decent).  I did a bit of searching around and found a program called CDex that works quite well at getting decent quality MP3 files off your CDs -- and it's free!The MuVo also has a repeat function.  You push a button at the beginning of where you want the repeat to start, and again where you want it to end.  While this is a lot of work if you want to listen to one track over and over, it's perfect for any musician trying to learn a song.If you're looking for CD quality and lots of features, I suggest you get a good skip-proof portable CD player.  But, if you want a very small MP3 player that sounds pretty damn good, and is extremly small and lightweight, this is a great product.  By the way, everbody I've shown this to has been amazed at both the sound quality and the size.