ID: B000IHN8AO-R1TCVNBPYYUVRD-A1MRIHDZGWODKV
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-10-2MP-Digital-Camera-Reduction
ReviewerID: A1MRIHDZGWODKV
ReviewerName: Rodrigo Pizarro
Date: March 6, 2008
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: What a great camera for the photographer!
Content:
I was looking for a new DSLR for quite a while after letting go my first one, my superb Nikon D50. I though I was going to become locked in the Nikon system, at least for a while, when I accidentally came across a web review about Pentax's new come back to the prosumer DSLR scenario with the highly appraised Pentax K10d.
I must say it was a very though decision, but after actually having the K10d in my hands for the first time and feeling it's healthy heft, I realised was in front of a serious camera, a product in a league of it's own. For this price there's no other way you could get a weather sealed 10 MP DSLR with polycarbonate covered stainless steel chassis, on-body shake reduction, dust reduction, 2.5 inch LCD monitor, gorgeous big and luminous pentaprism viewfinder, unique exposure modes, two RAW formats, compatible with every Pentax lens ever made.
The K10d is one of those cameras that just feels right and makes you believe no corners were cut during it's development. You have all the critical adjustments at the tip of your fingers
Even though, I believe the K10d isn't for everybody. It's not that I'm a snob. I just think the K10d was made for people who want to WORK with photography in a similar way they did with film. Meaning you probably like to shoot everything in RAW and enjoying making large prints of your work. If you are looking for something really straightforward out of the box probably, this is not the best place to look for. For example the K10d's metering firmware is set to preserve highlights. Some might confuse this with underexposure under high contrast lighting situations. Use your flash to fill in instead! The K10d is for people searching for a more photographical approach, as for example, the hobbyist would want.
Some commonly cited cons about the K10d are regarding to auto white balance performance under incandescent light. Personally, I can't think of a most horrible light to work with or a DSLR that handles it correctly.  If you are forced to shoot under incandescent light, use your flash and/or shoot RAW. Also some people think the K10d gives dull, not very sharp images. If you want sharp saturated, sharp JPEG's just set the camera to "Bright mode." It doesn't give you much post-processing freedom though, but that's basically your call.
After all you probably realised photographers with the photographer in mind designed the K10d. Using the K10d it's an empowering experience, one that pushes you to further unleash your creativity.