ID: B00008UI0R-R1OW67QBEML0CI-A3E6GS9TMV9FDY
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A3E6GS9TMV9FDY
ReviewerName: Mark Waldo "Mark Waldo"
Date: March 17, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 1.0
Title: 9 months: the magic point of disappointment?
Content:
I  was really excited by this vacuum when we first got it. Definitely 5 stars. There is no doubt in my mind that this machine tests well in product comparisons. My wife and I really did a lot of research before buying this. And it performed really well at the start. But now 9 months down the road, I am really disappointed.
Compiling my own experience into what I have read others say, the brush attachment is a real Achilles heel. If you have a lot of carpets, you may want to consider the following carefully.
After owning ours for 9 months the brush attachment just stopped spinning - unless you pushed down on the back of the attachment with a great deal of force so it would pop a wheelie and lift the brush off the carpet. I pulled the brush unit apart two times to clean it to make sure that debris was not the cause. 
Here's the deal. With the brush not able to spin very fast, the belt moved more slowly than the motor wanted to drive it. So over time the drive axle polished the belt smooth. As a result the belt lost any ability to grip the drive axle. My temporary solution is to sand the belt with 60 grit sand paper. This gets it to start working better but not greatly. You can smell the belt burning just a bit as you use it. Sweet, right?
What are we vacuuming? Once a week we vacuum 1000 SF of low pile carpet. I think the problem is that there is no height setting on the brush. Because of this, the brush just bites too hard into the carpet (and this is not high pile shag) making it run slower than the motor wants it to. You can't adjust the brush up to make it have a little less contact and spin better. 
To change the belt you have to remove the outside housing (four screws) and then another housing (three screws) over the brush. From there you can pull out the belt and sand a bit of teeth back into it. - Or just replace it.
Which is just not going to work for me. From reading other reviews on Amazon, 9 months seems to be the magic point of disappointment, so I don't feel so all alone here.
But all is not so bad. While I was in there, I could change the bulb. After 9 months, that is burned out.