ID: B000BWE4TK-RTZD79VKFCW6U-A9NR04Z4PG8OH
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-Camera-28-80mm-f3-3-5-6G
ReviewerID: A9NR04Z4PG8OH
ReviewerName: D. Henri "filmdave"
Date: January 10, 2006
Helpful: 32 of 33
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great great great Digital SLR!
Content:
I'd been drooling over the D70 for the last couple of years, but the $1000 price tag was still a bit high for me.  When the D50 came out, accompanied with fantastic reviews in the digital photo magazines, I finally took the plunge.
This is a GREAT camera.  Really versatile, and terrific image quality. 
6 megapixels is, as I understand it, the digital equivalent of a 35mm film resolution.  Be sure, though, to keep the ISO setting as low as possible.  Just as shooting 800ASA film will introduce more grain to your film shots, even shooting 400ISO will introduce much unwanted video noise to your digital shots.
Battery life is amazing.  I recently had a 14 hour shoot, in which I shot over 1500 frames.  I planned ahead and bought a spare battery -- only, I never needed it!  I've used the camera often since the beginning of the year -- the battery charge indicator has remained on 'full' since my last charge, around Christmas.
The most important issue with any camera, though, is image quality.  This baby exceeds all expectations.  As a point-and-shoot (full auto mode), it's phenominal.  Start messing with the myriad of available settings, and you can do anything with it.
In full auto mode, I recommend killing the flash in all but the most necessary situations (nighttime parties, for example -- you've got no other choice).
All in all, this is a brilliant, wonderful, exceptional camera.
One final note -- piece of advice I heard often as I was doing my research:
If you already have a film-based SLR camera, be sure to check out the digital SLRs made by your film camera's manufacturer.  If you have Nikon already, the D50 is great and you can probably use most if not all of your existing lenses on this body.  If you have Canon film cameras, the digital rebels will be able to use those lenses and they also create great shots.
I've long been a Nikon fan and am even able to use the manual-everything lens from my 30 year-old EM with the D50.  It's great!