ID: B00008UI0R-R2B6VZ88DFVK66-A18T0AHGQ8T8ZP
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A18T0AHGQ8T8ZP
ReviewerName: WendyBG "wendybg"
Date: March 8, 2007
Helpful: 13 of 13
Rating: 3.0
Title: Switch broke after 2 years of light use.
Content:
Update 6/19/2009: The Hoover's switch broke after 2 years of light use. I wanted to downgrade my rating to one star, but the Amazon system wouldn't let me.
I bought the Hoover WindTunnel Canister Vacuum from Amazon.com about 2 years ago.
The switch (on the handle) no longer works. It won't turn the rotating brush on, so I can't vacuum the rug. It won't turn the vacuum off. I had to unplug it to turn it off.
I use the vacuum for light duty -- one rug, every week or two. I have used the vacuum fewer than 50 times. Since the switch is embedded in the handle, it will probably be expensive to fix.
This is unacceptable. A product is only as good as its weakest part. It should last longer than a few uses.
It's easy to be enthusiastic about a new acquisition (though I rated the Hoover WindTunnel as mediocre due to its many inconvenient features). Only time will tell if an appliance will hold up to use. This one didn't. I don't recommend this product.
Original review: 3/8/2007
We only have one rug. The rest of my flooring is hardwood (which we generally sweep, not vacuum). We have two medium-sized dogs, which aren't very heavy shedders. Our "vacuuming load" is low, compared with a home that is fully carpeted and/or has several heavy-shedding pets or kids.
What I like: 
This Hoover is a small, relatively lightweight canister. It has a tall handle, making it easy to pick up and move. The wheels work well, so it's easy to pull around. 
The vacuum motor is strong. It does a good job, removing dirt, from the rug. If that was my only consideration, it would get 5 stars.
The Hoover is bagless, with a washable HEPA filter. It collects dust in a pitcher-shaped, plastic container, which is dumped out. This saves on the cost and inconvenience of buying bags. (See below, for the downside.)
The controls are conveniently located, on top of the telescoping wand handle. The strength of the vacuum is adjustable (low/ high). The rotating brushes do a good job, of removing fur, from the rug.
The separate small, powered-brush floor attachment works well for carpeted steps. It's as effective as the large carpet brush, and much lighter to use. This is a good-quality attachment.
What I don't like: 
The plastic attachments (for crevice, upholstery, non-carpeted floor) are light and not sturdy. Worse, they don't have a hole, in the coupling area, to accept the button on the wand. Since there isn't a locking-on hole, the Hoover's attachments pull off. I am using the good-quality attachments, from my old Eureka vacuum. You don't buy a new machine, so you can cannibalize the old! 
The Hoover's dust collector is very small. It pitcher-shaped, a transparent cylinder that is 6" across and 6" high. It has a handle, like a pitcher, to pull it out of the machine body. The dust collector is a dark transparent plastic. It has a line that says, "Don't fill past this line." The line is only 2" from the bottom of the cylinder.  
After only a few minutes of vacuuming my one rug, the canister is completely full of dog fur. Maybe it would have been OK, to continue, but I couldn't see whether the dust was past the line. The fur was, and I don't like to disregard instructions. 
With a large, carpeted house, and heavy use (e.g. large, heavy-shedding dogs), the canister would have to be emptied, several times, I'm sure. This would probably be inconvenient.
When emptying the canister, I had to tap the HEPA filter part many times, to disloge the dust. I got dust all over me, and ended up sneezing. That's the downside, to having a bagless design, which has to be emptied.
I felt like I vacuumed the house, then needed vacuuming myself ;-).
I gave this product 3 stars, because it is easy to use, and functions well, but has several downsides.