ID: B00005MF9C-R3GEE8XXGELTQR-A3USVH6UDIC7BK
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-DCM18S-Personal-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3USVH6UDIC7BK
ReviewerName: KatieFloyd "Katie"
Date: September 13, 2004
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great for singles on the go!
Content:
I just moved into my first apartment that I share with my non-coffee drinking roommate. I was looking for a small, simple and easy method to make coffee in the mornings. I must say this little gizmo has saved me time and money. I buy and grind my own flavored beans and I'm just as satisfied as if I went to the coffee shop and spent $3 for a gourmet blend. So far I have been thrilled with this little unit, with only one minor complaint.
I grind my own beans and from start to finish I have a perfect cup of coffee in under two minutes. This is great because especially on those mornings when I NEED my cup of coffee I don't usually have a lot of time. Even if I left the coffee sit on the counter for a few minutes it's still piping hot when I'm ready to drink. The automatic shutoff is nice for peace of mind. The size is right, doesn't take up a lot of space in my small kitchen and it's a attractive little unit that I don't mind having out on my counter all the time.  On the rare occasion when I do have company I can very quickly make a second cup without any delay.
The size of the cup is perfect. I try to only drink coffee a few days a week and this provides the perfect my needs. I've also noticed I seem to be making better coffee. With my previous 4-cup coffee maker I was never quite getting the proportion of water to grinds right but since this coffee maker make one serving once you know how much coffee to use you've got it made.  The built in filter saves me time, mess and money. I don't have to go looking through the cabinets and pulling out coffee filters each morning. Clean up is super easy, just give the filter a quick rinse under the sink and you're good to go. 
My only complaint would be the travel mug that comes with the coffee maker isn't my favorite. Though I've never had any problems with it the handle seems a little flimsy. Also, it's an awkward size so doesn't fit the tall standard size coffee tumblers you find at Starbucks, etc. However, you can easily replace the mug and brew directly into any standard or oversized mug.  While it is one extra step I usually brew into a large mug and then pour that into one of my tall Starbucks coffee tumblers. The volume of the coffee is the same, it's  minor annoyance but easily fixable. 
All in all I'd give this product 4.5 stars for the mug annoyance but I have been quite happy with my product and would purchase another one if the need ever came to replace this one. Makes a great gift for any single coffee lover you know.