ID: B000EPHQNA-R19FL4V666ZK9G-A3AUZYG412MO04
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-shuffle-Bright-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A3AUZYG412MO04
ReviewerName: stephen pyde
Date: December 3, 2006
Helpful: 6 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Nothing Better For Running
Content:
I bought an iPod Nano about a year ago along with the optional FM radio.  I added the new Shuffle to my iPod collection and have been using it now for about a month.  One of the ways I stay in shape is mountain trail running and sometimes it's nice to take some good music along for the journey.  I still use my Nano on the trails but tend to reserve its use for when I'm in the mood for radio (having a large collection of my own recorded music along is great just in case radio reception is poor).  I bought the shuffle because I quickly discovered when running trails I seldom wanted to look at the Nano's video screen and something simpler, smaller, and more compact would be preferable.  When I heard about the new Shuffle I ordered it from the online Apple Store a month before they were available for shipping without the benefit of any user reviews.
This is an excellent gift idea for anyone on your list who likes to exercise and wants to enjoy music at the same time.  Just because someone you know already has one of the other iPods with a video screen does not mean the Shuffle won't quickly become their favorite iPod to use when exercising and being physically active.   You simply put your play list together on your computer and upload it into the Shuffle.  You can play your songs in order or tell the Shuffle to shuffle the original order.  I play my songs in order and put together a play lists long enough to cover the time I will be running, 3mi, 5mi, 10mi or more (highest energy songs at times when I know I will need the most inspiration).  It clips anywhere  on your shirt or shorts and you're good to go.  The new Shuffle is as outstanding a product as my Nano, I love them both.  Another advantage  of having two iPods I've discovered is being able to lend an iPod to a friend who's along for the run (that is if they don't already have one).