ID: B000AQSMPO-R3LLV8P4FYDMM1-A19O3ISF0BXAC
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-B60-Special-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing
ReviewerID: A19O3ISF0BXAC
ReviewerName: Yvonne
Date: May 8, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good single cup coffeemaker
Content:
I turned to a single cup coffeemaker when I discovered the grind-as-you-go coffeemaker was out of my price range ($1k-3k). I went with Keurig after much research on pods vs kcup machine,  including the availability of coffee, company's history and reviews. Once picking Keurig I had to decide between a B50, B60 or B70. I chose the B60 because I wanted 3 cup sizes and the 48 oz water reservoir seemed adequate as I am the only coffee drinker in the household at 1 cup every 1-2 days.  Some report the Keurig as noisy. There is some noise when the water loads into the machine but that's only for 30 seconds. Using the machine in the morning does not awaken the household and my house is not big. Also, I am not a fan of the super strong coffee house type coffee so the complaints that   Keurig serves weak coffee is not an issue with me although some Kcup brands are definitely better than others. I do use bold varieties when making a 9oz cup as the flavor is better.  The B70 offers an 11oz cup but I don't see how 1 kcup can adequately make an 11 oz coffee without getting watered down. Remember,kcups have basically the same amount of grounds (unless it's of the bold variety) whether 5oz or 11oz is brewed. The B70 offers an 11oz size. I don't travel with my coffee but I imagine 2 kcups (9oz and 5 oz cup options) are needed to fill a travel mug with good tasting coffee so coffee commuters might as well buy a B60 then brew a 9 oz and 5oz into the travel mug. The B60 allows me to program the machine to start however starting and warming is so simple and fast (3 mins max) that I don't use that option. I can also adjust the water temp but find the company default temp of 192 is fine. Shop around to get the best price on Kcups. I consider $.48 cents each is a bargain. Consider I used to waste coffee by making 5 cups of drip machine coffee then throwing out 3-4 cups. Also some grocery stores now stock kcups. Unfortunately there aren't many variety packs available so to get a good deal I'm buying a 25 pack of each   variety then having to find the room to store them all. The B60 has a 48oz reservoir that I thought would be fine. But if I have 1 cup in the AM, 1 cup in PM and 1-2 household members have a cup of tea or hot chocolate then the reservoir must be refilled because the Refill alert goes on before all 48oz water is used. Not a biggie but seems inconvenient if 6 guests want coffee. Now I wish the B60 came with the larger 72 oz reservoir. I'm still not sure the B70's 72 oz reservoir is worth the extra $50-60. The Keurig does heat up quickly between cups. No problem with cleanup. There is the consumer waste of the kcup itself that I'm not pleased about. I rationalize by putting the kcup grounds in the compost pile before I pitch the kcup itself. I do have a kcup filter but frankly the thought of packing, dumping, and washing the filter is not attractive. Keurig is so convenient and easy I use it more than I expected.  Overall I am very pleased with my purchase.