ID: B000EBC4LI-R17OCVYK34QCU-A39DCJ4Z5JETBZ
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Evolt-7-5MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A39DCJ4Z5JETBZ
ReviewerName: ADP "Artisitc Vision"
Date: April 13, 2006
Helpful: 38 of 40
Rating: 5.0
Title: A digital slr that influences creative photography
Content:
I have had the E330 for about 1 month now and couldn't be happier.  I looked very closely at the Canon 30D, the Nikon D50 and the Olympus E500.  I am really happy I went with the E330.  While there is no such thing as a perfect camera, I have found that this one in particular fits my needs and caters to my more creative side with the live view articulated view finder.  The Live A and B modes really open a lot of doors that other cameras in its class do not allow.  Although it does't look as traditional as the others, the style had grown on me.  I opted to get the body only so that I could upgrade the lens to a 14-54mm Zukio which is a wonderful all around lens.  I find that the camera feels very good in my hands, although the D50 also had a great feel to it.  It is very responsive and handles most situations well.  I like to do street photography and the live view articulating lens allows for the taking of pictures without being too obvious.   The low light performance is pretty good compared to the other olympus  digital SLR with its new sensor, but is still not as good as either the 30D or the D50.  This may change however when Lecia releases its 4/3rds mount image stabilized lens which is supposed to be compatible with the Olympus lineup.  While I am new to digital SLRs, I consider myself to be a photography enthusiast.  I started out with a Sony S85 which was a wonderful camera in many ways, but I have to say I am having a wonderful time learning about a whole new realm of photography with the E330.  I highly recommend a good look at this camera if you are looking to get into digital SLRs as it serves not only as a nice crossover camera, but as a midline intermediate SLR that will keep you wanting to get even more creative with your photographic hobby.