ID: B000EPHPPE-R1MDCIF8OGNBNK-A1EJF3HAXA8IS0
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Video-White-MA448LL-Generation
ReviewerID: A1EJF3HAXA8IS0
ReviewerName: J. Baldwin "Reader"
Date: November 29, 2006
Helpful: 26 of 26
Rating: 5.0
Title: A beauty - and not a scratch in sight
Content:
First up, I'm surprised at the comments about the scratches. What are people doing to their iPods? I thought I treated mine rough, but clearly some are throwing it out the window. My iPod is completely scratch-free after just over a month of use, and it's been painless to use.
It's my fourth iPod - I bought the first model the day it was released (5 gigs - how I thought that was a lot!) and then upgraded to the third generation model. Finally I treated myself to this in order to a) carry my massive music collection b) watch videos and video podcasts and c) use with my Canon DSLR camera.
(I also have a Shuffle - a great device for the gym!)
The screen looks small but I'm surprised how immersive an experience it is to watch video on it. I thought about waiting for the rumoured large-screen video iPod but reasoned that I actually don't need something so big or battery-hungry and am really pleased with the current screen size.
It's also really good at displaying photos, either on the screen (nice, crisp images and colour reproduction) or on TV or data projector.
Sound is good too, though they no longer provide those little black covers for the earbuds which mean mine keep dropping out (I suppose my ears aren't compatible!) Anyway, I used the ones from the old iPod...
I like the new features such as the letters that pop up on screen when you scroll through long lists, and the search feature. The new games are great too - Bejewelled and Texas Hold 'Em helped me through a tedious train journey recently.
As for my old iPods, well I'm glad to report that they maintained their value and were happily sold to new loving parents ;-)
Personally I'd be wary of any reviewer that says theirs cracked, or the battery failed or whatever - either they got a duff one (and by a the law of averages, there have to be a few in every batch) or they're not telling the truth. Seriously - I've been a happy iPod user for over five years now and I've not only never had a problem with any of mine, no one I know has either (and there are a lot of iPod owners near me!)
Buy with confidence.