ID: B0000YTYGM-REKB49URQ40NJ-A1XR58IRKP3HEZ
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DTC-975BKN-Programmable-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1XR58IRKP3HEZ
ReviewerName: fan of quality products "turmfalke22"
Date: February 25, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Buying another one since this is the best
Content:
Our first one just died this morning.  It's gotten a daily workout since my husband drinks quite a bit of coffee.  So I brewed a carafe manually, meaning I boiled the water on the stove and poured it into the basket until the carafe was filled.  Then I went online to see if I can replace the machine TODAY.  That's how much we love it.  
Yes, I've screwed up and didn't place the carafe all the way into the machine and my husband woke to coffee all over the counter.  Also, the little gasket thingie on the filter basket that controls and stops the flow when the carafe is removed deteriorated, but Cuisinart sent us a courtesy replacement basket without charge.  And yes, the machine beeped this morning after about 5 minutes, but no coffee had brewed.  
Well, in the past we've had bitter coffee from glass carafe coffee makers where the hot plate burned the coffee, and once a handle broke off and the carafe "crashed and burned".  Luckily I didn't get burned.  (No, I didn't go suing the manufactuer, I simply avoided that brand from then on.)
When I don't pay attention and misalign the cap the carafe won't fit underneath the basket.  But when I screw it on correctly and then don't properly place the carafe, whose fault is that?  To downgrade a great product because I've messed up, is that fair?  
We LOVE, LOVE, LOVE this machine.  The carafe alone is worth the price of admission.  My husband gets up at 4am and leaves me about 2 cups in the carafe, yet the coffee is still fairly hot and tastes fresh several hours later.  
During our infamous New England power outage last December we were the only ones in the neighborhood who had coffee because we have a gas stove and I brewed the coffee manually as described above.  The thermal carafe allowed me to go outside and offer coffee to the neighbors at their doors without spilling a drop, and the coffee remained nice and hot.  
Bottom line:  I will buy (and replace, if necessary, as long as the quality remains the same) this model since I simply have not found a better one on the market as of yet.  I used to be a die-hard believer in German products, but in this case, the Cuisinart won out.