ID: B000HGIWN4-R1ZBM9TWNUZI2N-A3PESIAXLRUUIR
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-135mm-Zoom-Nikkor
ReviewerID: A3PESIAXLRUUIR
ReviewerName: M. Domingo "love my kitchen"
Date: February 26, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: A Mommy's Must Have Item!
Content:
This camera is incredible. It is so easy to use. You don't have to be a professional to buy and use this camera. It is a mommy's must have. If you are wanting to take phenomenal photos to have for years to come, this is the camera to do it. 
The camera turns on immidiatly without delay and snaps the photo immediatly without delay. So basically, what you see through the viewfinder is exactly what you get in the photo. This camera I purchased has a zoom of 18-135mm. What that means for me is that I can put the camera within 2 inches of my childs face and take a detailed picture of her eyes, or even something as small as a freckle. The detail is incredible.  The instruction guide that is included with the camera walks you through step by step on how to set it up. So if you are at all intimidated the idea of using a bigger camera, DON"T BE! Memories are important, that is why we take pictures to begin with. This camera is perfect for anytime, day, night , sports events, super mega close ups etc. If you do any sort of scrapbooking, I highly encourage you to use photos taken by this camera. You will not be disappointed at the quality of the photo. You may use the camera like an amateur, but the photos look professional. You can't go wrong, because when you look through the viewfinder, there are markings to help you center the photo with ease.  The clarity is amazing. I did a side by side comparison with my old camera to this one and this camera picked up things i could barely see with the naked eye. My family and friends are pleasantly suprised at the quality and clarity of the photos they have seen so far. I love this camera. Its an SLR with digital technology. Basically, that means, good old fashioned camera with the capability of using automatic or manual modes, but get the benefits of getting the digital clarity and not having to develope rolls of film because it saves to an SD memory card.  This camera is a keeper, you will get your moneys worth on this camera because it will last you a lifetime to come.