ID: B000I1ZWRW-R3CUZMH3NHAXH1-A2RW9Z1DL0ZXDW
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-10-1MP-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A2RW9Z1DL0ZXDW
ReviewerName: R. Turk "Rich Turk"
Date: May 26, 2007
Helpful: 16 of 17
Rating: 4.0
Title: GOOD BUY, EASY TO USE
Content:
I've been using the Canon EOS 20D for 3 years and the REBEL XTi/400D  for 9months.  The 20D has been replaced by the 30D which sells for about $1100.00, whereas the Rebel XTi sells for under $800.00(prices for body only).  Many people ask me whether they should go for the 30D or Rebel XTi.  I've pretty much switched to my Xit as the standard camera, w/the more expensive 20D as the backup. Here's my review of the Xti and comparisons to the 20D
Camera Size and Handling
The entry level Xti is smaller and lighter than the mid-level 20/30D's.  This is an advantage for me, as I'm trying to keep the total weight of my kit as low as possible without sacrificing quality
The Xti has fewer dedicated controls and buttons that the 20/30D's.  I expected that this would make it harder  to make adjustments(I make very frequent adjustments and never use the camera on Program). However Canon did an excellent design in arranging the buttons and functions on the rear of the camera.  While I do miss the famous Canon "rear wheel" which I used to dial in exposure compensation, overall, this new arrangement is just about as easy to use as the higher level cameras.
Screen
The 2.5 inch screen  is not only larger but brighter than the screen on the 20D. It's the same size as the screen on the 30D and I can't compare overall brightness.  This screen has enhanced the usability of the camera, particularly outdoors.  While no LCD screen can render a great image in bright sunlight,  I'd say I can now use this screen to get a good sense of what my image looks like in many more outdoor shooting situations than with my older camera.  
Dust-Reduction
This is not in the 20 or 30D's.  With my 20D I had to use a blower to clean the sensor frequently...or else I'd see spots on my images.(by frequently, I mean after about 4 days of shooting).  I have had the Rebel xti for 9 months, shot thousands of frames and have never done a manual cleaning.   The ultrasonic vibration system that automatically shakes dust off the sensor when the camera is turned on, really works.
Image quality
While the Xti offers higher resolution compared to the 20/30D (10.2 vs 8.2mp), it's given me some problems with noise especially at 800 iso or higher.  Unlike my 20D I will not use this camera at ISO 800.  I have also noticed some issues with underexposure compared to my other camera, and the need to dial-in positive exposure compensation, especially when using Canon Speedlight.
I've lived with this issue for a while, and finally called Canon.  I have to  give Canon credit as the support person spend nearly 20 minutes with me on the phone trying to diagnose the problem and rule out any user error.  I've read about this underexposure issue on some Canon user forums.  I will send my Rebel in to have the exposure calibration checked.
VERDICT
Despite some issues with the noise at ISO800 and the exposure, I really enjoy using this camera and have taken some great shots with it.   Originally I intended for it to be a backup to my 20D, but instead it's become my primary body.  Images can be seen on my website.
PS.Since writing this review I sent the camera back to Canon to adjust the underexposure.  They got it back to me w/in a week and the exposure is now ok; noise is also less since I'm now exposing properly