ID: B000I1ZWRC-R3EX0PSNZEI90A-A2UQK3DAZ8NO2T
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-10-1MP-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A2UQK3DAZ8NO2T
ReviewerName: Hiram Grant "just call me Sam"
Date: September 12, 2006
Helpful: 37 of 41
Rating: 5.0
Title: Nice upgrade of the popular Digital Rebel Series!
Content:
[Reprint from my XTi w/ lens review]
The new Digital Rebel XTi camera should appeal to a wide variety of users: those wishing to upgrade from a point & shoot digital, or those wishing to improve upon their first generation digital SLRs.  Features and value make this a 5-star camera, but it won't be everyone's cup of tea.
Compared to the previous Digital Rebel XT, important improvements are:
1) 10.1 megapixels.  In digital camera circles, this is like saying a car has more horsepower than an older car.  While this alone doesn't mean "better" pictures, in reality, combined with other improvements in hardware & software, the results typically are better.;
2) 2.5" LCD panel.  This alone has more than one advantage.  The obvious first one is that our pictures look larger in review.  The second, and for someone approaching 50 (like myself), is that the LCD is now used for all the camera's data (shutter speed, aperture, shots left, etc.).  It's much easier to read than the small LCD typically located on the top of the cameras.  It might use up the batteries quicker, but, heck, if you can see the info this much easier, then so be it.  One complaint, it does not appear that the data rotates when you do verticals (like the Sony Alpha 100).;
3) 9-point AF.  The number of points are improved from 7, but the real key here is that it's the system from the 30D, which had a much higher degree of accuracy than the previous Rebels.;
4) Picture Styles.  I didn't really appreciate them at first, but simply put, this is like the days of film, when we could use a "portrait" film or "landscape" film.  For those that don't like to do a lot of computer work, these can be VERY handy in getting the right look in the camera.;
5) Dust cleaning system.  OK, I think the dust problem will probably be a little overblown, now that Canon offers a solution, but it is a real, if not great, threat.  Additionally, the way Canon has implemented it is second to none.  The first is through hardware.  An ultrasonic filter can simply shake the dust off.  Second is through software.  If you spot a nasty piece that won't shake off, you can do a reference shot, and have the dust removed by software on your computer.;
6)The grip has been improved a little.  The rubber on the grip is improved, and an anti-slip strip has been placed on the back where the right thumb goes.
Most all other things Canon is know for still exists.  The camera focus fast and quietly.  Camera operations are quick and easy to locate and use.  Pictures look great.
Now for the other side.  This is an unusual time in that all the big players are comming out with a 10 megapixel camera at the same time, so the Canon has some stiff competition.  Here goes a simple comparison.  
1) Compared to the other two cameras already available, the Sony A100 and Nikon D80 (both also 5-star cameras), the XTi is considerably smaller, and somewhat lighter.  Some will like this, even some with medium to medium-large hands.  But most people with larger, and some with somewhat smaller hands may prefer the other two choices.;
2) The battery is somewhat smaller than its rival's, and may drain a bit faster due to the LCD being used for info all the time.;
3) Functionally, the rear LCD is not as nice as the Sony's.  The Sony's rotates, can be set to enlarged type (50+ user again), and the system that turns it off as your eye approaches also starts the AF on the Sony.  [Although many like the top LCD, the Nikon way of needing to push a button on the back, then peak over the top to see what you're setting is not as nice].;
4) No in camera stabalization.  The A100 can shift the sensor to help eliminate camera shake.  Nikon and Canon require you to purchase rather expensive lenses to get the anti-shake.;
Also, soon to be added to the competion will be the Pentax K10D.  Specs are sketchy right now, but it appears to be enter the competition as a 10 megapixel camera with built-in anti-shake (much like their K100D).
Of these 3 currently on the market, the Canon is the least expensive; therefore, it's up to the other 2 to show they are worth more, a very difficult task, indeed.