ID: B00009RAVP-R2JXXIRBPMDTKF-A11E0Y3S63LI70
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Soleus-Air-MS-09-Oscillating-Radiant
ReviewerID: A11E0Y3S63LI70
ReviewerName: Margel Bonifacio
Date: January 18, 2007
Helpful: 68 of 68
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best Heater I've Ever Had
Content:
I'm a graduate student living alone in a one-bedroom apartment. Here in Reno, I pay more than $100 for the electricity during the winter season. I figured out that this is probably due to my heaters which are electric-powered. My apartment has a built-in electric heater and I have a Delonghi heater (DFH 333MT). I have no complaints about the Delonghi heater except that it consumes lots of electricity(1500 W) and I just don't like the feeling of the warm air plus it makes me feel dry.
To save money I decided to invest in this little heater and I was not disappointed. It just consumes 400 W (low setting) and 800 W (high setting). 
To give you an idea of how good it is, I turned off the built-in electric heater in my apartment and the Delonghi heater and I did not feel cold at all even in the LOW SETTING. 
The lights at LOW SETTING is not as bright as I thought. But in case you cannot sleep with its emitted light, I suggest that you put a blindfold. The light feels good. This device has also a safety mechanism. If you tip it, it will stop working and if it reached a certain high temperature,it will automatically stop. To sum up, a good buy.
This heater is made in China. I just hope that it will last for a long time.
UPDATE: In colder evenings, you need to use the HIGH SETTING. The light is too bright but the heat is enough esp. if you are at least 3 feet apart from it. In my case, I still need to turn on my apartment's built-in electric heater but only at LOW SETTING. This Soleus heater is just not enough to heat my whole room which is connected to the kitchen.
Well, it has been more than a year since I updated this review. I now live in Moscow, ID (from Reno, NV)doing postdoctoral studies and this heater still works!