ID: B00005MF9C-R1Q2BEMVYZ78JD-A32PTNFZNMSOSW
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-DCM18S-Personal-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A32PTNFZNMSOSW
ReviewerName: M. Garrison
Date: July 27, 2004
Helpful: 8 of 10
Rating: 3.0
Title: Almost Perfect
Content:
I have been borrowing this unit from my girlfriend for almost a month to use for my morning coffee.  I also used it on and off for about a year at her place so I think I have a pretty good feel for it.  I'll get right to the point.  I have a long list of pro's and then one significant con
+ Small footprint: I hate having appliances under the counter in a cabinet, I want them convenient and always on the counter, this unit take up VERY little space.
+ One cup of coffee: Perfect for the mornings before work, and even the weekends for me. I never drink more than a cup a day.
+ Relatively quick:  Even for two cups (both myself and my girlfriend) it's not that long of a wait for it to brew twice.
+ Good flavor.  For a ~$20 machine you can't really complain about taste.  By good fresh beans and adjust the amount until you get what you like.  If you are really a coffee aficianado and are attached to another method like french press, don't get your hopes up, but again, for $20 it's worth a shot!
+ Simple to clean, no filters!:  I like it, less trash and quick to clean.
Now for the one con:
- As I mentioned before I like to leave my commonly used appliances on the counter. (I know people who store their toaster in a cabinet and have to take it out every time they want to use it.  That would drive me nuts, but hey, to each his own!)  I also like to keep them plugged in and ready to go, which I don't feel comfortable doing with this unit.  As you may have read in other reviews, THIS UNIT WILL TURN ITSELF ON.  I don't know about you, but I don't like the idea of electric appliances (especially ones with heater elements) turning themselves on without my intervention!
So, if you don't mind unplugging the unit after each use, it's near perfect for the price.  If that bugs you (as it does me), best look somewhere else.