ID: B000K9XN0A-R18VDM28VKYY5H-A332U4DDXTF857
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Reconditioned-Cuisinart-Programmable-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A332U4DDXTF857
ReviewerName: Matthew Mitchell
Date: June 30, 2007
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Was very satisfied, but the machine failed in six months
Content:
[Update: January 2008.  The heating element failed today, and the machine is kaput.  Just six months of service, one or two pots daily, and we had no overflows or other abuse of the product.  I guess this is why Cuisinart puts only a 90 day warranty on the product.  If I could, I would change the review from four stars to one.]
By buying refurbished, you can get a thermal carafe coffeemaker for the price of a new one with a glass carafe.  
Now that the classic $20.00 Braun Aromaster is no longer being manufactured, we had to shop around before buying a replacement coffeemaker.  You won't find bargains like the Aromaster any more: its replacement now costs about $40.00  The products with thermal carafes intrigued us, but we were a bit taken back at their high prices.  Buying refurbished made the decision a no-brainer.  
The machine arrived well-packed in a basic white box, and if not for the simple packaging, you would not have guessed it was refurbished.  Interior of reservoir, cone, and carafe all looked like new.  The regular instruction manual, and a small package of #4 paper filters were included, but no gold-tone permanent filter (you might have two or three around the house already though).  
The thermal carafe takes some getting used to, but you will soon wonder why you kept buying glass ones for so long.  The drawbacks of it are 1) it pours _very_ slowly;  2) because of the narrow opening, you can't clean it like you can clean a glass one; and 3) the carafe is very tall, making the entire machine even taller.  All of those compromises are made in the name of maximizing the heat retention performance of the carafe.  
The drawbacks are minor compared to the huge benefit of the insulated carafe.  This will keep coffee hot for almost the entire day.  You can have a cup of your leftover morning coffee when you come home for dinner and it will still be warm! (though not piping hot)  Besides the convenience, you'll save time and energy not having to reheat or microwave your coffee.  Another advantage of any thermal coffeemaker is the automatic shut-off, which may save you from killing a coffeemaker by leaving it on all day too many times.  
Ergonomics are fine: this machine is pretty much foolproof. The removable filter holder is easy to grasp and lifts straight out from the hinged basket, so you can dispose of filters without having to touch them.   You must have the filter holder properly in place to close it, and you must have the lid fully screwed in to get it positioned properly.  If it doesn't go in easily, you know something's not quite straight and can easily correct it.  There is a deep recess to hold the carafe so there's no way to position it incorrectly.  So it kind of surprises me that people have reported overflow trouble.  Unless you forget and leave the carafe on the counter, it's awfully hard to have an accident.  
As mentioned above, the machine is very tall, so it may not fit under low cabinets, and it's somewhat cumbersome to move around when it is filled.  However, the thermal carafe goes anywhere, so when you're done brewing, you just push the coffeemaker out of the way and keep the carafe out where you can get it easily.  Only two other negatives to this machine: the first is how water condenses on the underside of the reservoir lid, and will decorate the outside of the carafe with tiny drops if you don't close it gently; and the second is the very loud beeping you hear when the brewing is done.  The latter might make this unsuitable for an office setting.
Quality of the coffee is as good as any other coffeemaker with a cone filter, and the thermal carafe makes your third or fourth cup as fresh tasting as the first.  You won't get that with glass.  There are no bells and whistles like flavor strength settings (do they really work) and small/large pot settings.  There is a basic timer for those who want coffee waiting for them when they wake up.  Buttons are small, but very positive feeling.  
My opinion is that for anyone who drinks coffee more than just at breakfast, the thermal carafe is well worth trying.  The lower price for this refurbished machine is a bonus.