ID: B000696OIC-R3OB9BL0MMMTN4-A10CBEWK2IG6XS
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: DeLonghi-DCM485-Thermal-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A10CBEWK2IG6XS
ReviewerName: Jack the Giant Killer
Date: October 5, 2005
Helpful: 3 of 9
Rating: 1.0
Title: Pretty...but utterly dysfunctional (UPDATED AGAIN)
Content:
UPDATE 2006 part 2 - I take back my claim that they fixed this carafe. The new design seemed to work initially, but now it is right back to spilling half the contents on the kitchen counter. So may I repeat, DO NO PURCHASE THIS WORTHLESS PIECE OF GARBAGE.
UPDATE 2006 - After months of not being able to supply a replacement carafe, the company chose to send me an entirely new coffeemaker. And guess what - they HAVE redesigned the carafe from the first generation! The lid has been reconfigured with a small ball in the pipe to (I assume) regulate the flow of coffee, and I've tested it several times, no dribbles....and it pours a LOT faster. You can also tell the new carafe design from the old by the white printed graphics showing the ideal spots to place the arrow for serving or brewing - these did not exist on the first generation.
DO NOT PURCHASE THIS COFFEEMAKER (or particularly, as mentioned above, the 1st generation!) Looks great, but has the worst designed carafe in history. In order to avoid spilling coffee everywhere, you have to either pour it at the same speed as the coffee actually brews (which doesn't always work), or pour it over a sink or swimming pool. I thought "maybe I just got a bad carafe", so I call tech support for a replacement. 8 months and 4 periodic calls later, they still do not have a replacement carafe in stock. Instead, they suggest that I cut off the plug on the maker, mail it in and hope for an entire replacement some 2 weeks later. Excellent customer service.
Oh, and Funkyville was right about the pause & serve - if the carafe isn't sitting just so perfectly in the unit, the drip stop doesn't open and you come back to find an enormous mess of coffee and grounds that have overflowed into every nook and cranny of your machine (and there are a lot) requiring the entire thing be scrubbed out.
It does make good coffee, though. Too bad you have to lick it off the kitchen counter.