ID: B000X1T3IQ-R1N7SBNKGBSM5I-A206RZS6ONHZIM
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-10-1MP-Digital-Mechanical-Stabilization
ReviewerID: A206RZS6ONHZIM
ReviewerName: Derek Neufarth
Date: July 6, 2008
Helpful: 8 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great camera if you know how to use it!
Content:
First , I will say if you love the 4/3rds system then you will love this camera, it is by far the best camera to date in the system.  Secondly, I must say that if you are a gear junkie, then this is a great system to get into--Olympus, in my opinion, makes the best lenses for digital imaginable. 
Now, why do I say, 'if you know how to use it?'  The images produced by the E-3, and the E-1, have a film-like quality to them, an almost Leica quality.  The color rendition of the E-3 image sensor is beautiful.  And the noise it produces (all image sensors produce noise) is also quite lovely compared to other systems.  But these qualities are only appreciable if the images have been exposed perfectly and in perfect, or nearly perfect light.  So if you rely on your camera to manage exposure for you, if you don't know how to use exposure compensation, or spot metering, or even manual mode exposure, then this camera will force you to learn all about obtaining perfect exposure.  
Next, I must share with you the only major disappointment that I have in the camera.  Yes, it has the fastest autofocus in the world with certain lenses, but more importantly, only in the right light, with the right subject.  Much too often, the camera searches for focus far too long, or simply will not find focus at all.  If you are a photojournalist or a sports photographer who relies on autofocus, then this is not the camera for you.
Finally, you may be wondering why i give the E-3 five stars (I would give ten if Amazon would let me).  Because, for the right photographer doing the right kind of photography, this camera is sublime.  Its favorite use for me is travel photography, but it is outstanding for fashion, outdoor portraiture, studio work, wildlife (A 300mm f2.8--that's a 600mm f2.8 equivalent, WOW!), street photography, landscape and cityscape (check the 7-14mm f4 lens--the best wide-angle zoom manufactured by anyone), and the list goes on, just not fast-paced sports.
So, I highly recommend the E-3 system, with the above caveats, to anyone as a primary system, and to everyone else as a system to supplement an existing Canon or Nikon system.