ID: B000GTR2F6-R2NRQ7YS2W8B74-AIL4HD8BRUHV9
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Platinum-Single-Cup-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: AIL4HD8BRUHV9
ReviewerName: Soozie4Him
Date: September 29, 2008
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: We love our Keurig - AND it's saved us money!
Content:
I bought my Keurig B70 from Amazon 6 months ago and my hubby and I simply LOVE it!  When we remodeled our kitchen, we searched for the best coffeemaker and ended up with a great one with a thermal carafe.  However, we rarely used it!  Hubby feels it's a real pain to clean up (well, it is!), and we don't agree on what kind of coffee we like.  He likes extra-strong and I like it milder and flavored.  So we ended up at Starbucks more often than I'd like to admit.  He would stop on the way to work, and I'd stop for my Iced Venti Nonfat Caramel Macchiato a few times a week.  We had seen a Keurig in action in an office setting and couldn't believe it!  When I suggested getting one, he obviously had been thinking the same thing, and as they say, the rest is history!
The other, very nice coffeemaker is stored and now our Keurig lives on our counter and is used MANY times per day.  Some people might wonder if you really need the 4 drip sizes, but we enjoy having these options.  Especially for making those specialty drinks I loved getting from Starbucks!  I use the smallest drip size and a strong K-cup, add Splenda and Mrs Richardson's Butterscotch Caramel (so it can melt and disperse).  Then I pour it over a tall glass of ice, and add a couple of ounces of milk and it's positively heavenly!  If you like, you could drizzle the caramel on afterwards, like Starbucks does, but I prefer it mixed throughout.  
We've had NO trouble with our Keurig - we use filtered water from the fridge, and we leave the water canister in place for filling.  We buy K-cups from Amazon, but have found that our favorites aren't always in stock, so we go to Big Cat Coffees, where they have ALL the kinds at all times!  You can even buy an assortment pack from Big Cat - you choose 5 different varieties and you get 5 K-cups of each.  That's how we found out that for the strong brew that my husband prefers, Tully's Kona and Green Mountain Extra Bold Dark Magic are the two favorites.  I use those to make my Caramel Macchiatos, but if I drink it hot, I prefer the flavored varieties.  
Your Keurig will become a conversation piece the first time you have company over!  They will love being able to choose their own kind of coffee!  We're in a church small group that meets in the evening and most of those people prefer decaf at that hour - no problem!  We have an assortment of decaf as well as flavored coffees, bold, medium and mild blends, and you can also get Hot Cocoa K-cups for the kids, and K-cup teas!  
We rarely go to Starbucks anymore, and we know that our Keurig has more than paid for itself already!  K-cups might be 40 cents or so each, but everyone gets what they want and there's NO waste like there is with a pot of coffee that you have to dump out!  
Don't have a Keurig yet?  What are you waiting for?  Get one today from Amazon - you won't know how you ever lived without it!