ID: B000FKGSIS-R2HR14BVX3V6V1-A2NQUWZQQFSOFD
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Holmes-HCH4954-U-Whisper-Ceramic-Heater
ReviewerID: A2NQUWZQQFSOFD
ReviewerName: zoedragon
Date: January 24, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Effective heater, horrible instructions
Content:
I got this little heater for my desk because I work on the cold side of the building. A couple of other coworkers had this model and were very happy with it, so I decided to try it too.
One deciding factor is that this unit looks good. There are cheaper heaters out there, but they all look like cheesy plastic. Being in a somewhat public area (I don't have my own office) the heater needed to look nice, and this one definitely fits the bill.
More importantly this heater works very well. As soon as you turn it on, you can feel the heat pouring out of it, with no hesitation. My toes are soon toasty and my fingers no longer frozen. Equally important is how quiet it is. On low setting I can't hear it at all, even when it was sitting right next to me! On high setting the fan is audible, but not distractingly so.
An interesting feature is what Holmes calls "Viziheat". Since there are no glowing coils inside this unit, it might be hard to tell if the grill might be hot. When you turn on this heater, the orange stripes appear on the grill as it heats up. You can see these in the product photo here. When the grill has cooled off it fades back to black. The grill seems to be the only thing that gets hot. When the unit is pumping out heat, you can burn yourself on the grill, but the surrounding plastic housing is surprisingly cool to the touch, which makes it easy to adjust its position safely.
My only complaint about this heater is how poorly the enclosed instructions explain how the thermostat works. This unit has what they call "1-touch" for heat settings. There's only one button on this thing and you press to turn it on, and repeatedly to achieve what temperature you want. Sounds easy, right? What's confusing, and what the instructions don't bother to mention, is what it means when the temperatures are lit up in red or green, sometimes both! It has multiple pages of warnings and safety instructions, but not a single word on why I feel no heat at all when a number is lit up in green by itself. I eventually figured it out, but still, a little less "don't touch the grill when it's hot" and more useful information please! It's sad how most companies are so paranoid about getting sued because a few lawsuit-happy idiots were dumb enough to hurt themselves. But anyway, if you're good at figuring out puzzles, you should have no problems deciphering how the heat settings work on this thing. Overall I'm happy with this heater.