ID: B000FFWGN4-R1MNYEC1KDRILG-A1K0962HKVEPBN
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-Lift-2dOff-Revolution-Pet-37602
ReviewerID: A1K0962HKVEPBN
ReviewerName: January
Date: April 19, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best Vacuum I've Ever Used
Content:
If You Have Pets (Or Even If You Don't): I lover my Bissell Pet Hair Lift Off vacuum. I've had it for over a year now and it still beats out my girlfriend's Dyson Pet Vac for about 1/4 the price, (we live very close by and did a test - she vacuumed her carpet (she has 3 dogs and 4 cats) with the Dyson, then I went over it with my Bissell and picked up a lot hers missed. Then we did the same test in reverse, and the Dyson didn't get enough to even bother emptying the dirt cup when used after the first go round with the Bissell). Plus it has better features to boot. For example, it solves the the canister vs. upright problem by having a detachable cannister - just press the button and you can take the canister (and hose/attachments) to do the stairs, drapery, hard-to-reach areas, etc. Trying to lug my old upright up every few steps with the hose attached to it was a nightmare, as the upright was wider than the steps, so I had to do a balancing act with the vac against my leg and the hose in the other. It is very easy to attach the hose - one easy step, click to detach the cannister and you're ready to go. 
You turn on the power/suction with one switch and the beater brush with another - this makes it great for vacuuming bare floors (beater brush off). It's always been frustrating trying to go over a linoleum floor with an upright - the beater brush throws tiny pieces all over the room. This is very handy when doing a quick sweep of the house as you can easily turn the beater brush on and off as you go from room to room. 
It has conveniently placed attachments, they are stable on board as you move from room to room, but are easy to access and easy to use. The small beater brush (for use with the hose) works great - I use it all the time and have never had a problem with it. I do wish there was an optional larger size beater brush hose attachment available as I could use it for areas/throw rugs that are too small/lightweight to use the upright, but a bit large to go over with the small beater brush included (although this size is perfect for the stairs and furniture). 
The dirt cannister is extremely easy to empty - just flip the "lock" and pull it out like a drawer, empty, and replace. My last bagless was a mess to empty - it was difficult to remover, the main filter was inside the cannister, so you had to twist, take that out over a large trash can because the dirt and hair came out with it, tap it several times, use a toothbrush to get in dirt out of the little holes, reach inside and pull out hair, etc that was stuck in it, then empty the cannister itself. Repositioning the filter inside the cannister was a pain, and it was a pain to get the thing back into the vacuum once reassembled. No wonder there are people who say they hate using bagless vacs! But this one will change your mind, no doubt. 
The filters in the vacuum are numerous (including HEPA filtration) and are as easy to remove clean (or replace) as the dirt cannister. A bonus is that there is an indicator that slowly turns from green to red to indicate when it is time to clean the inner filters. 
It seems apparent that (finally) a vacuum was designed by someone who actually uses a vacuum. I love this vac and would recommend it to anyone. 
And one final big plus for animal lovers - part of the purchase price goes to Petfinder.com and other rescue and animal welfare organizations, so you can clean up after Fido or Fluffy and know you're helping rescue animals at the same time. 
One caveat - I do not have any bare wood floors, so my above statements for bare floors applies only to my experience on linoleum and tile floors. 
[...]