ID: B000SSSQKA-R1NTYAO9ZGRR7S-A20OG5INKFI0Z0
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Panasonic-MC-CG467-Multi-Surface-Lightweight-Canister
ReviewerID: A20OG5INKFI0Z0
ReviewerName: Susan Anderson "Quoque plures libri"
Date: November 29, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Love, love, love my Panasonic vacuum!
Content:
I had used heavy upright vacuums for the past 20 years and I was tired of lugging the monsters around the house with not much cleaning power in return. My parents has a canister vacuum when I was a kid and I remembered how easy it was to use, even for a child. I researched for months, both online and in person at appliance stores, searching for the perfect canister to buy. I decided on this Panasonic vacuum and have never been disappointed. It was easy to put together right out of the box with just a few pieces to snap together. 
Worked like a dream from the moment I turned it on! It has a beater bar on the vacuum head on the floor which helps to pick up dirt without a lot of pressure from the operator. I like how the head can move around in just about any direction, allowing for easy vacuuming under tables and chairs. The hose really does swivel 360 degrees, making it easy to move around the room. I have hardwood floors, throw rugs and wall-to-wall carpeting with a longer nap so I use all 3 floor heights available on this machine. Really easy to change this option and yes, it works awesome on wood floors. The beater bar doesn't hit the wood on the parquet flooring setting. This has to be the first vacuum that I owned that works on wood flooring as all the uprights I had did such a poor job that I had to sweep after with a broom.
I live in a large 2-story home and love having a vacuum that doesn't weigh a ton to haul up the stairs. I have had arthritis in my hands for over 30 years and have a hard time holding on to anything that is heavy. This is so easy to pick up with the wide handle, weighs very little and when I vacuum, it just follows along behind me like a little puppy dog without yanking on it. Speaking of dogs, my terrier, who hated the old vacuum, doesn't attack this one for some reason... makes cleaning day less stressful for both of us!
Be sure to buy replacement bags at the same time as when you purchase this vacuum to ensure having one when you need it. I live in a rural area and my local hardware store doesn't carry this brand. They are easy to remove and replace. I prefer a bag that I can throw away instead of the cup that I have to empty. The exhaust filter is also easy to change.
The small size of this vacuum is also great for storage. The uprights hogged up my small downstairs closet. This one fits in the corner of the closet and even has a clip to attach the wand to the body when not in use. It is stored upright on the large end of the canister, with the wand attached to the underside. The auto-rewind on the cord means no more loops of power cord dragging on the floor when you put it away.
I have now used this vacuum for several months. It still works like new and I've not had any problems with it at all. I would highly recommend this product to anyone looking for a new vacuum without any hesitation!