ID: B0007Y79AI-R3SQXGKAGFLMHN-
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Black-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: 
ReviewerName: 
Date: December 26, 2006
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: WOW WOW WOW
Content:
WOW
That's just about all I can say about the new Nano. I just got this nifty little thing this Christmas Morning, and I can already call myself an expert with it. Now, if that doen't tell you how easy to use this thing is, I don't know what will.
There are so many things tha just WOW me, but mostly its the sound quality. This is my first Mp3 player ever, and i'm glad that I didn't just settle for the first generation. The sound on this thing is amazing. Talk about turning your whole life into a movie, complete with music. I just put the earbuds in my ears, turn up the volume, and tune out the world. 
But, I have to say that the earbuds are a little bit uncomfertable. But, how can something be compleatly comfertable with things stuck into your ears?
Also, iTunes was extreamly easy to use. It downloaded in about 5 or 10 minutes, and was ready to use right away. The result? Having music on my iPod only two hours after taking it our of the package. The only thing: there is really no instruction manual, not that you need one. I was able to just go and mess around in iTunes for about ten minutes and find out how to sync stuff into my iPod, but still. But, I didn't even read the ITUNES HELP thingy that they had, so that's probably why it took me so long to find out how to sync! :)
I love that apple finally got a nano that comes in color. When I started shopping for an iPod, I consitered getting an iPod Mini because then I could get one in that light green, my favorite color. But, iPod minis die after about a year and a half of use, so I wanted something that would last me a while. Long story short: I went to the apple website and cames across their new 2nd gereration iPod Nanos, and put one of those on my Christmas Wishlists instantly. 
To a kid like me, being able to chose your own color is the best thing next to slice bread. With all that peer preasure, it's fun to be able to show off your inner self with the color of your iPod.
Overall, apple listened to everything that their customers said, and put everything that we wanted into a compleatly cool iPod.
Oh, and one last thing: the 24 hour battery life is really cool, and the battery would probably last 10 or so hours if you were doing something other than listening to music (as most of us do).
I LOVE MY NEW IPOD!!!!!