ID: B000BK39N4-R2B8O2GJO5FEB7-A2H8W6DBHVTKS
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Digital-14-45mm-3-5-5-6-40-150mm
ReviewerID: A2H8W6DBHVTKS
ReviewerName: Gary Roberts
Date: March 23, 2007
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: E500 - Great digital SLR
Content:
I did a lot of research when I was looking for a digital camera because they are not cheap. If you want a digital SLR, there is not a better value out there. This camera comes out of the box with 2 fully digital lenses. It has a ton of features and a pretty large display. I found it very easy to use in point and shoot mode. It took about 5 minutes to look through the quick start guide to get it set up that way and start shooting. For those that are more serious, it has a ton of different options for white balance, exposure settings, etc.. Those will definitely require more time investment to master. The E500 also has multiple image quality modes, so you can easily adjust for picture size and amount of detail you need.
It takes excellent photos, and while a professional might be able to spot the differences at higher ISO settings, 1. you probably won't be using it at those extremes, and 2. you also won't notice any degradation. Even at the highest settings, the camera still produces excellent shots suitable for 8 x 10 printed pictures. Any noise you might see in the shots (again, rare) can be pretty easily handled by most graphics software. 
There might be a better camera out there, like the Canon EOS Digital Rebel XTi, but you will pay a lot more for it and you won't get any lenses. (A decent lens costs more than the camera.) I would also be amazed if you noticed any difference in picture quality, even though it has a higher megapixel rating. The E500 comes with two digital lenses that will handle just about any shots you're going to want to take. Olympus also has a whole family of digital lenses avialable if you are more serious about your photos or if you need something that the included lenses don't cover (extreme close up or miles away). 
Olympus includes decent photo capture software for PC or Mac, but I'd recommend something like Paint Shop Pro or another package. Other notes: The battery charge lasts a reasonable amount of time and the camera comes with USB and other video cables. One minor knock, the USB is not 2.0, so if you are going to transfer that way, it will take a bit longer. It took a few minutes to transfer 50 pictures at the highest quality setting. A plus is that the camera accepts both xD and CF memory cards.
Two recommendations other than buying this great camera: 1. Try this and the other cameras in person, this isn't a casual investment, and 2. check out this web site: [...]