ID: B0001A99ME-R1VV3URIZDF3FJ-
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-M9434LL-Green-MODEL
ReviewerID: 
ReviewerName: 
Date: April 30, 2004
Helpful: 84 of 88
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great LITTLE ipod
Content:
The best thing about this ipod is how unbelievably small it is.  Mine is exactly the size of my business card. It is also VERY thin and light.  I understand it has all the features and benefits of full sized ipods with one exception - capacity. It only holds 4GB (really more like 3.5 of actual music). I was able to cram in about 30 CDs - granted these are mostly jazz CDs with lost of 10min+ tracks. The iTunes software is great. The battery lasts about 8 hours if you dont use the backlight too much. I sync with my Win XP PC using USB 2.0 and I can't believe how fast it uploads the songs off of my PC to the ipod. (CD to PC takes a little longer - maybe 3 or 4 min per CD.)
Others  have complained that there is an issue with the headphone plug losing its connection with the circuit board over time creating a lot of static and poor sound quality. After a week mine is still fine, but it is something you should know about. Apple is apparently aware of the issue and honors the one yr warranty. If mine has a problem, I will quickly reduce my star rating.
I give it 4 stars instead of 5 because of the capacity issue. I really wish I was able to get my whole CD collection on it, but I guess I would need the 40GB version to do that.
Anyone considering the Mini should also check out the 15GB version. For fifty bucks more you get more in the box and over three times the storage. You do give up the "coolness factor" of having a mini.
In my box along with the Mini was a USB 2.0 cable (which also charges it from the PC's 2.0 port), a firewire cable, the ipod, a belt clip (useless), earphones w/o remote, and a white square plastic box which can plug into an AC outlet which, when used with the firewire cable, becomes an AC adapter.
Laser engraving is available for about twenty bucks if you order directly from Apple - great if it is a gift.