ID: B000AAWEJU-R3NP6SIQ9MEVSA-A1FGBKCF1SVIKK
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-Carina-Canister-Vacuum-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1FGBKCF1SVIKK
ReviewerName: Karen "karen"
Date: August 16, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Glad I went with this vacuum!
Content:
I knew I wanted a cannister vacuum.  My mom had one growing up(an electrolux silverado)and I wanted a straight suction nozzle for my downstairs hard wood/tile and a carpet nozzle for staircase and upstairs of my home.  I thought I would spend some money and get a good vacuum so off to Sears, to compare models.  Their Kenmore models were large and not attractive to me even though one was rated  a consumers best buy.  But I did like the Electrolux Oxy 3 model @ $499.00.  I decided to do an internet search to see if I could get the electrolux cheaper over the web, and I was happy to see the price was a $130.00 less online but I read many conflicting stories of quality and repair issues that I thought this one may not be good to buy online.  I decided to go to a "real" vacuum specialty shop and try to compare the electrolux to others in this $500.00 price point.
When I called the shop and asked what models they carried they gave me a list of Miele, Riccar, and some others I had not heard of.  I specifically asked about electrolux and he basically made me feel like an idiot for wanting that.  I decided to be open minded and go to the shop to see the $499.00 entry price point Miele canister he suggested.  At first I thought no way...This does not have all the bells and whistles I am looking for.  The electrolux had all kinds of fancy indicator lights and a on off switch and power adjuster on the handle, etc.  Then when he proceeded to talk about the Miele's superior construction and motor being under warranty for 7 years, I finally test drove it in the store.  Long story short this cute compact vacuum is very functional.  I LOVE the bare floor brush it comes with, it does a great job swiveling and getting under the edges of my low sectional sofa.  And the unit itself is lightweight, but definitely feels well made.  The salesman called the Miele's the BMW of vacuums, this being the 3 series, entry model if you will.  I suppose the $850.00 Miele is the 5 series and for $1000.00 plus you get the 750 BMW?  Anyways, I didnt want to spend mega money on this vacuum, but I did like the German engineering aspect and the fact that I felt like I was buying a quality item that would stand the test of time.  
I think the power brush may be a little lightweight for me upstairs, but it does spin well and has great suction.  I also like how you can connect it to the handle for the staircase!  So this Antares is going to do the job for me and my family of a baby, preschooler, teenager, cat and hubby.  I hope you like your purchase as much as I like mine!  As a special note I did buy the Hepa filter for 60.00 extra, as I thought this level of vacuum deserved it.  
I would buy this online to save tax ($40) with free shipping, otherwise go support your local vacuum shop.  With this economy help out the guy in your backyard!