ID: B000UWF5DU-R1BS4PIYUOUUAT-A268EEWUXYCA8Q
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-CMD3500MBT-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A268EEWUXYCA8Q
ReviewerName: Terry Mesnard
Date: May 14, 2008
Helpful: 23 of 24
Rating: 5.0
Title: So far no complaints!  A terrific maker for the price
Content:
It's difficult trying to research coffee makers to purchase, I realized, after looking at various ones throughout Amazon.  A few products had agreement in the quality, but for a lot, the reviews seemed to be all over the place.  And the ones that seemed to have really decent reviews were a bit out of the range I wanted to spend on an office coffee pot.  Then I discovered this Black & Decker one that had absolutely no reviews, was in the price range I was looking for and had all the extra features (like a thermal carafe) and decided, why not?  It's been a good purchase so far.  
Reviewing appliances like coffeemakers is a bit outside of my normal purview and most of what I'd write about (the features) are listed above, so I'm going to make this short and sweet.  The thermal carafe works wonderfully and we typically brew a pot, bring the carafe into our section and it keeps hot for the morning.  The last cup feels as warm as the first, which is nice.  It's only an 8 cup carafe, which could be problematic for those looking for a big pot, but it's the perfect fit for us.  
One feature not listed is that it uses a charcoal filtration system.  This is good and bad.  The good is the filtration is a nice feature and it comes with one little charcoal patch, but after reading through the manual, it looks like the only way to order more is to go directly to Black & Decker.  I noticed that Amazon has the Black & Decker TWF50 Water Filter Basket & Replacement Filter for sale via some other vendors.  It's not the same model number, but the picture looks exactly like the one used in this coffeemaker (minus the color) and the replacement filters will probably fit.  Unfortunately, it could become a hassle for those who want to keep up with their filter (which needs to be replaced every 60 brews/2 months).  
Looking at the other features, there's a digital clock, with a screen that indicates the coffee is fresh and ready, a mechanism to choose your coffee strength that definitely works as advertised, the ability to "sneak a cup," and the carafe (unlike others we've used) pours perfectly without making a mess.  All of this comes in a stylish package complete with blue lights along the side where the water level is read.
This makes for an attractive package that works perfectly and has a lot of additional features.  I'd definitely recommend checking it out.