ID: B0006HUYTE-R1LEBNGW15JC2H-A3KOIC4U58NR4R
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-Sanitaire-SC3683A-Commercial-Canister
ReviewerID: A3KOIC4U58NR4R
ReviewerName: lucy louise
Date: July 31, 2008
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: 10 stars
Content:
This is a WONDERFUL vacuum. I love this little thing. I would give it 10 stars, it is that good. My last two vacuums have been uprights and they were terrible! All I wanted was a vacuum that would suck. Is that too much to ask of a vacuum? 
My husband searched the Webb high and low and when he found this one he thought we should buy one. I thought he just liked the price but turns out he was correct on all levels. This vacuum is easy to use, looks great, is lightweight, and really sucks!
It works well on hardwood floors, lino, and carpet. I like it so well that I am thinking of buying another one for downstairs.
In reading the reviews others had written they thought it was too loud-they should of had my last two vacuums and they did not like winding the cord. I agree that winding the cord is a bit of a bummer but the last vacuum I had that had an auto wind on it only wound the cord for the first 6 months then it was a hit and miss affair and sometimes the cord wound so fast that it had a bit of whiplash effect and your bare toes and feet had to do a fast shuffle. So winding the cord is not a big deal. I will wind because this vacuum SUCKS big time!
I have now had this vacuum for over a year and I bought another one to use downstairs as well. I still love this vacuum, it works well, sucks great, works on all types of floors. 
I do not find it too loud and the cord winding is not a big deal. This is still the best cheapest vacuum I have ever owned.
I have had this vacuum for two years now and it is still the best vacuum I have ever owned. I use it about 4 times a week and should use it seven times a week. We have our 16 month old grandson living with us and it is nearly impossible to keep the floors clean but this little guy tries. It will suck up fluff, baby wipes, cheese on the floor and it is great for retrieving balls and other objects that are accidentally? thrown behind the freezer, couch, bed, desk etc.