ID: B00006F2MI-R2EVUMX6BBPUCF-A37WCKX3E7UTVG
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Grind-Brushed-Chrome
ReviewerID: A37WCKX3E7UTVG
ReviewerName: coffee bean cat
Date: January 28, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: coffee and a little common sense on my part
Content:
We got this brewer/grinder as a gift and we loved it's capabilities as either a brewer or grinder. At first set it and it would brew  or grind the beans perfectly, smetimes with a part of a bean left in the grinding which we noticed when cleaning.  After eight months or so it started not brewing the full 10 cups and would only brew say,one-half of the water or less. So, we started using the four cup setting and it would work for brewing,didn't use the grinder for four cups. Well, this got to be a pain so my wife suggested we get a different/new coffee maker and we ordered the Zojirushi. After ordering the other maker I got to wondering why the Cuisineart would work but only for four cups.Then the light went on. Our water is fairly hard and perhaps there is buildup of deposits inside the water heating line. Poured five cups of white vinegar into the water tank and set the machine for full brew and put a filter in the basket just in case any particles might come out into the pot, as I was going to do this process a number of times. It took 3-4 five cup(used the same vinegar) brews with full brew setting but it cleaned out the deposit build up great. I then ran our regular water and put in 10 cups to see if it would brew the full 10 and voila it ran perfectly. Did this twice just to make sure-no problem second time either. I would say that depending on usage clean it every month with white vinegar(it's cheap and it worked for us). As far as the grinder it worked every time with of course it's top on and never over filled. We cleaned it out after every usage as both these things, to us, are now considered just a part of normal maintenance on this brewer/grinder or any coffee maker. Hope this helped.