ID: B000WG6YF2-R2NUYUOVS4B90A-A2FMSKFMPAY9BP
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Red
ReviewerID: A2FMSKFMPAY9BP
ReviewerName: NYC1982
Date: December 17, 2007
Helpful: 12 of 15
Rating: 3.0
Title: Great interface; semi-good player  (3.5 rather than 3 stars)
Content:
I completely skipped Zune's first outing but thought the redesign was worth a shot.  I upgraded from a Sony NW-S205F wanting something with more space and more features.  
The best thing about this player is the interface - it's extremely intuitive and looks great (especially if you've downloaded the album art).  The 'squircicle' gives you the option to flick your thumb to scroll left/right and up/down OR simply press and hold the edges.  I liked the touch function, although I found it a little too sensitive and turned it off.  I also found it didn't always respond to button presses and occassionally i had to press a button more than once, but it never became annoying.  The software was pretty good, although I feel ALL mp3 players should offer drag-and-drop functionality.
Now for the bad stuff: where is the EQ???  To me this was the biggest problem.  Coming from the sony player (their mp3 players are notorious for their sound quality!), the music felt sort of plain - although I'm a fan of bass so this may not be an issue for you.  Also, there's no mass storage function so you can't move files - music or otherwise - which seems silly to me since its got 8G to play with.  And I found the battery life merely adequate (I got about 15-18 hours without WiFi).  
**Speaking of the battery, I should note that on my third day of use, the battery completely drained itself without my knowledge (i had used it for 30 min, turned it off, and it wouldn't restart later).  There are a few noted cases of this which you can google or find on Engadget.  It didn't happen again, but it definitely took away my confidence**
Overall, I thought the Zune 8 was good, but not great and I ended up returning it.  However, if you don't need a lot of bass or a long battery life, it's definitely a good choice.