ID: B0001A99MO-RFMH7XXN5HEJ6-AA23KK4HY0EX2
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-M9160LL-Silver-MODEL
ReviewerID: AA23KK4HY0EX2
ReviewerName: M. Thomas
Date: March 1, 2005
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Love it!
Content:
Everything's better in pink!
Seriously, I had it for two days before I brought it back. There were no problems, I just didn't want to be greedy, since I already own a 15GB 3G and a 20GB 4G. But for the two days I had it, I fell in love with it.
Battery life: Never had to recharge it in those two days. I didn't use the equalizer - since the equalizer setting you use in iTunes transfer to the iPod, I didn't have to.
Look and feel:
This thing is really cute! And if you get one in silver, I guess it's cool. The functionality of such a small device is unbelievable. The brushed metal look is even better in color, and the click wheel interface makes it really simple to use one-handed (but you still shouldn't use it while driving - don't learn that the hard way).
Functionality:
I transfer a lot of files back and forth, which is why this is less useful to me than the 15 and 20GB models I now have. As a design student, I need to move large Photoshop documents from home to school and back on a semi-weekly basis, and it's so easy to just drag and drop them once you enable disk mode.
I also bought my first audiobook at Audible.com last week. The iPod places 'bookmarks' where you leave off, so you can just pick up the story whenever, and not miss a beat. And the wheel makes it easy to back up in case you feel you've missed something.
Cost:
With the recent price drop, the 4GB model is now priced at what it should have been. It's good, also, that the 6GB model is only $50 more, since having nearly 4 times the storage at a $50 price difference didn't make sense. Perhaps Apple could look over their pricing again? It's still $299 for a 20GB, so if you're not really into the colors, you get a lot more storage for a little more money.
All in all, this is a really good player. And since I won an incentive contest at my job last week, I will soon be the proud owner of another brand new iPod mini! I guess it was meant to be.
(I think the only drawback is if it's really true that they don't include the wall charger with the 6GB models... That kinda bites.)