ID: B000CSIY26-R2TJOIL5VRJSF7-AJG9OOJZ86ZZS
Category: AirConditioners
Product: Get-Organized-2961-1084-PORTABLE-CONDITIONER
ReviewerID: AJG9OOJZ86ZZS
ReviewerName: Tim V
Date: August 29, 2006
Helpful: 12 of 17
Rating: 3.0
Title: Delivered on time but the shippment box was badly damaged
Content:
I have to rate the delivery time for this to be a 5. The product arrived on time.
I rate the shipping of this product to be a 2. The box was badly damaged and I was skeptical if the air conditioner would work or not due to the condition of the box upon arrival. It was during a time of the weeklong heat wave so I took the chance and accepted the product with damaged packaging. So far, the unit has worked without any problems. Then again, I've only used it for two days. 
I rate this airconditoner 3. First of all, you need to install it with the included hardware to your window, which didn't take too much time. The unit is really loud when it's operating and for some reason there are only adjustments for the airflow to blow to the sides, not vertical so, cooling the air will take some time. 
Also, you may need to install a drainage hose even though; the box says it does not need one. There is a small rubber stop at the bottom of the unit that you can unplug and install a rubber hose (from Home Depot). I ran my AC for two days and noticed some water run off from the hose.
One more thing. My roomate also ordered the same AC as mine. His order was shipped to someone else by mistake so, he had to order another one and was credited for the second order. His AC also arrived with a badly damaged box but accepted it anyway due to the heat wave. So far, he has had no problems with his unit just like mine.
In short, I wish amazon had a wider selection of room portable AC but, if your looking for something semi decent just to cool a hot room for a few days and can put up with the loud continuous noise then, this is the way to go. 
PS: don't forget to hook up that drainage hose just incase!