ID: B000KLSRP4-R3LRJOQTYYLMF-AE2L67ZD2CFIG
Category: AirConditioners
Product: Whynter-10-2c000-2dBTU-Portable-Conditioner-Stainless
ReviewerID: AE2L67ZD2CFIG
ReviewerName: L. Feldman
Date: April 26, 2009
Helpful: 15 of 18
Rating: 3.0
Title: With some tweeking, its better than nothing
Content:
I've owned this model for a couple years. When I first got it set up, I was very dissapointed and gave it a 1 star review. The room temperature/humidity actually went up, the window kit melted out of place, and the self-evaporating feature broke the second night. I actually filed a BBB complaint against the internet retailer and got a full refund. They told me to keep the unit. Since then, I've worked out some issues so that when when we need emergency AC to supplement our building's central system, this unit offers some,albeit and expensive and noisy, assistance. For those giving this product a 1 star review, these remedies might help beef it up to 3 stars:
1) The biggest problem with ALL portable AC's is the duct hose...it emits enough heat to overcome any cooling that the machine supplies. I ordered a fiberglass/mylar insulating sleeve and put it over the hose. Big difference. All prtable ACs should come with this as a mandatory accessory.
2) The window kit...another problem: After the plastic one that came with the unit melted, I threw it out (along with the funnel shaped attachment) and fashioned my own out of the styrofoam packing blocks that came with the unit. I duct taped them together to the width of the window and at the end cut a hole that exactly fit the diameter of the duct hose. I bought some cheap foam rubber stripping that is used for sealing window ACs and put it on top of the styrofoam when the window is closed onto it. I keep insulated duct hose, and window piece attached to the unit when I store it. It takes up more space in the closet, but only takes minutes for an air tight set up that does not let the cool air out the window.
3)A lot of people complain about having their floors ruined by the failure of promised "self evaporation". There must be an internal pump that malfunctions easily. Mine broke almost immediatedly and the compressor would shut off unless the small internal drip tray was drained. If you take out the lower plug and tip the unit, the water will drain...onto the floor. There are two 'manual' hose outlets: a higher one (that is useless because its dependent on the pump) and a lower one (at the very bottom of the back). This is the one that will work because without the pump, the water will only drain from the very bottom. But of course this outlet relies on gravity. Here is what you have to do to over come the problem: Lift the unit onto a sturdy platform that is high enough to allow you to attach the drain hose (my unit came with one)and put the other end into a large bucket. I use an old desk top computer placed on its side. Yes, you have to empty the bucket once a night, but its better than a flooded floor or a compressor that keeps cutting off. Also, aside from accomodating the bucket, raising the unit about 8" off the ground helps because:
4) Hot air rises/cold air falls. Another design flaw of this AC is that the air is forced out thru vertical vents, so most of the cool air goes nowhere. Make sure to point the leuvers upward, and then put a small fan on the floor in front of the unit, also angled upward. This will help fan the precious cooled air up into the room and away from the floor.
Is all of this worth it?  This unit is very expensive to run. We bought it for emergencies and could not imagine running the thing full time. With all the tweeking, we're talking about cooling a 180 sq ft room ~6 degrees. But at least with the above revisions (and ear plugs), you get enough cool air to make the difference between a sleepless night and a decent night's sleep.