ID: B000Z4RKYU-R1E91Y8L675W4C-AJHWYW321WOZH
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Hamilton-Beach-48274-Station-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: AJHWYW321WOZH
ReviewerName: T. Overton
Date: March 30, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Works Great!
Content:
I purchased this Coffeemaker prior to reading the reviews here.  I have had none of the problems mentioned here.
I have encountered only two problems:  
1.     The coffee did have a "plastic type" taste initially, despite running water with no coffee through the machine 3-4 times prior to making any coffee.  However, after a few days of use this problem disappeared.  I do rinse-out daily the brewer basket and resevoir with water only.  I would avoid using soap very often.  I have found that this tends to foul the taste of coffee whenever plastic parts are involved; it seems that coffee pots need a bit of "seasoning" to make a good cup of coffee.  If you are a need freak and want everything spotless, I would avoid any type of plastic coffee maker; Try Chemix instead!  But you will sacrifice the convenience.  
2.     Also,I did discover that my insulated coffee mug is too tall to go under the spout.  Perhaps if I purchased a larger capacity brewer this might be solved.  Still, I only needed a 4-6 cup capacity.  So, I will need to get a shorter insulated mug!
Otherwise, some of the other observations here are true.  Yes, the water dispensing arm does move, so just be careful.  Also, the filter size mentioned on the box is "regular".  I too thought this meant 8-12 cup filters.  No, it does take the smaller 4-6 cup filters.  This being all too obvious just by trying to fit a larger size filter in place the first time I tried to brew coffee.  I simply used the smaller size filter and it worked fine.  Also, some have commented on the weakness of the coffee.  I tend to like strong coffee, so I have found that one rounded tablespoon of Starbucks coffe per two cups here works fine.  Actually, I only get two cups of coffee out of this brewer for a full "6 cup" brew, for as some have mentioned, the typical mug is much larger than 6 oz.
So, overall I love it and would recommend it.