ID: B0000AFX53-R1UEWOQ14U7CJ4-AWD1BNFUDLDKB
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Krups-468-42-Moka-8-Cup-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: AWD1BNFUDLDKB
ReviewerName: A. T. Bogart "researchnut"
Date: January 14, 2004
Helpful: 13 of 13
Rating: 5.0
Title: Can't go back to drip machines now..I LOVE this machine!!!
Content:
Drinking coffee outside of a coffee shop never really excited me UNTIL I got this machine...Wow! What a difference compared to our now "shoved in the back of the cabinet" 5 year old drip machine! The flavor I got out of the exact same grinds I've always used before(a good quality fresh roast) was so much more intense and rich - I was so glad that I did a little research and decided to try one of the recommended coffee machines that brewed at the "optimal water-temperature range" for extracting the best taste out of fresh ground coffee. ...Having no timer is not an issue since I get fresh HOT coffee in about 5 minutes (that's for half a pot, a full pot takes a few more minutes) and it's so easy to use and easier to clean than my old machine. I even use it to make a quick pot of plain-'ol steamin' hot water when I need (I don't like waiting forever for the kettle and I don't like burning my hands on an overheated mug handle placed in the microwave.) ...I thought that perhaps the process of brewing coffee in this pot would be a little complicated, but it's anything BUT that. ... I bought it then and there and vowed that if it didn't make a considerably superior cup of coffee that it would go back.Well, I still have it and it's started a love-affair with good tasting coffee for me. One word of caution: when I first unpacked it (after reading the instructions), the carafe was a little difficult to remove since during the shipping process the top rubber grommet was slightly dislodged and this put more pressure against the carafe lid than there normally should have been with the lever in the release position. I gently pulled using a slight side-to-side motion until the pot came out, removed and then replaced the rubber grommet correctly and have had NO problems since. My next coffee venture will be a good burr grinder - something I would have never bought before, but a good companion for the excellent brew this machine is capable of making.