ID: B000KKMCS8-R970F2TCXK9Z1-A1TBT43KJZ6JQE
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Pelonis-B-6A1-Classic-Ceramic-Furnace
ReviewerID: A1TBT43KJZ6JQE
ReviewerName: Judy Smith
Date: January 27, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 2.0
Title: Caveat to chemically sensitive
Content:
While this heater may indeed be durable & rugged (time will tell), I totally agree with reviews which complained of either the panel getting very hot to the touch, as well as the inconvenience of accessing controls on the rear, which is ridiculous.
More inconveniences I'd like to add:
(1) Could have used a decent carrying handle. That would have been less nuisance, especially considering how hot the front metal-grill gets - why would I want to risk touching anything except a stay-cool handle? instead of the pitiful little triangular thingie which may or may not be intended as a handle - I have no idea.
(2) When the heater is on LOW (i.e. without the fan kicking in), there's a throbbing/vibrating type of hum that gets on my nerves. Maybe it's just me who's sensitive to that. All I know, is that no other space heaters I've had, such as Holmes & Toastmaster, made that sound, rather just the relatively relaxing whir of a fan.
(3) Finally, here's a Caveat to chemical sensitive types like myself. Pelonis is no different than the many irresponsible companies who flood the U.S. with Chinese-produced electronics that are SATURATED with chemicals, expecting us guinea pigs to inhale no end of toxins by running their goods (such as heaters, LCDs, and lamps) for several days, weeks, or months until they're finally outgassed. More's the pity that enough miner-canary types who are sensitive like me, don't offer such information in reviews. Because that way, just maybe, those culprits who are responsible would get the message!
(4) I really wanted the power cord to be at least a foot longer, because it doesn't reach to my outlet that's high up on the wall, the way my old Holmes space heater did (even if barely).