ID: B000GG6LWY-RBCUVRN8IZN8E-A1OTN4X6M20GQJ
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Optimus-H-4436-14-Inch-Oscillating-Control
ReviewerID: A1OTN4X6M20GQJ
ReviewerName: P. Sih
Date: December 21, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best for personal heat
Content:
I have yet to see a better unit for personal warmth. These are the most effective non-contact heaters and the lowest cost to operate.
I have three of these units. Two are used in a place where the inside temp rarely gets above 55F and outside it gets routinely below 0F. One is used in San Francisco, CA where I'm on the north side and it's always cold.
All of them are very effective. The radiant heat goes on YOU and not the room. Your room will not get significantly warmer but YOU will feel the heat. It is like sitting outside in the sun. As a result, the cold, which is still there, is not uncomfortable. 400W is plenty for a single person sitting close by. 800W is good enough for a couch full of people. Of course the people may be more effective than the heater, depending on configuration.
The closer you sit the more heat you get. Heat received by your body decreases with distance. Past about six or eight feet, it's not that much heat anymore.
400W translates into 4kwh for a 10 hour sit, or about 60 cents at the rates I pay. These are net out more effective at heating YOU than the forced air units which heat the air that then heats you. The only way you'll get more effective is to use an electric blanket or heating pad.
The remote control is the best thing since sliced bread for a heater. Place the heater where you're going to use it. Use the remote to turn it on from where it's convenient. For example, place the heater four feet from your bedside. Turn it on when you go to bed or get up. You'll be warm while dressing. Full power "git's 'er done." At bedtime use the TIMER. You'll fall asleep warm knowing the thing will shut off automatically. Crank it up to full power and use the oscillator to "share the wealth" with more than 1 or 2 folks. All heaters for personal use should have remotes. Why not?
This thing is quiet. It makes about as much noise as a toaster. It has NO fan. It does NOT blow air. It is lower power than most forced air units but more effective at PERSONAL heating. It does not heat air or space, the final frontier. Don't expect it to blow your socks or shoes dry, because it neither blows nor sucks. It is not a hair dryer. It will not give you dry mouth, dry throat, or cause you to wake up in the middle of the night gasping "OMG I left THAT stupid thing on" as you try to rehydrate yourself from prune-dom. It's like the SUN but you can't get a tan. Don't even think of trying that. You'll cook like bacon before tanning.
Other heaters have their place (I have a 10KW forced air unit for example) but this thing is the tops for heating bodies.