ID: B000CS7UTY-R2ORB1ECFGCKLI-A2AM6NKH441VY0
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Zen-Vision-Video-Player
ReviewerID: A2AM6NKH441VY0
ReviewerName: Okigirl
Date: April 7, 2006
Helpful: 14 of 14
Rating: 4.0
Title: Beautiful
Content:
My husband is in the military and we live in Okinawa, Japan. We don't get a lot of the US TV shows here, so my reason for purchasing the player was to download shows to the player and then connect the player to our TV and watch! To do this you HAVE to order the Zen Vision: M Video Cable. I received the Vision M yesterday, and have since downloaded and watched 2 TV shows-it works great! 
After I had first received the package and charged the player, I tried to look thru the menu on the Vision M. I got stuck in a song and couldn't figure out how to get out. The navigation system is horrible-the touchpad is too sensitive. My player froze up and I had to reset it within the first 30 minutes of use. After I reset it, the player didn't go to the main menu, but was still at the song I got stuck in the first place.
After several hours I finally got to the main menu. After I connected to the computer and downloaded the shows, it took another 30 min to get to the right screen to view the shows-I was so mad I wanted to send the player back. Once I was able to get to the right screen and connect to the TV, it played beautiful on the screen. I am much happier since it is doing exactly what I bought it for, and it is doing it well. I am just going to allow myself the extra time to navigate to the correct screen every time I watch a TV show.
I read so many reviews about scratches that I ordered a protective shield from shieldzone.com. It hadn't arrived yet and I was so anxious to use the player that I left it in the plastic casing that it was shipped in, and it has worked out great (just for use at my home). The plastic casing has an opening at the top so you can power the player on, and an opening at the bottom so you can attach the piece that allows you to charge and hook up to the computer. You can also use the touchpad thru this casing. I haven't been very gentle with it at all, and still no scratches. I will leave it in the casing until the one I ordered arrives.
I do like the player now and do not regret that I bought it, the reason I gave it 4 stars instead of 5 was the touchpad and navigation.
I usually download avi files, but some shows I'm just finding in mp4 format (ipod) which the video converter won't handle. Does anyone know what software or codec I can download to convert to a file I can play on this machine? If so, please let me know!!!!!
**
** This is an update, after spending a few hours on the net, I found a zen message board epizenter.net that suggested you convert mp4 to compatible formats with software called Super-it's free, I just converted an mp4 to an avi file and now it plays on the vision m. You can download the Super software at
erightsoft.com