ID: B000IHN89A-R1ZS47TRR91AO0-A3IJMGVOWPBCPJ
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-Digital-Reduction-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A3IJMGVOWPBCPJ
ReviewerName: looking around "aworldtraveler"
Date: May 27, 2007
Helpful: 25 of 25
Rating: 5.0
Title: Shooting "out of the box..."
Content:
I recently acquired a Pentax K10D DSLR with a Pentax SMCPDA 16-45mm Zoom f/4.0 ED/AL Lens and a Tamron 70-300mm Di AF Lens to cover everything from wide-angle to zoom - telephoto situations.  I fitted the lenses with the standard UV filters and the camera with the Pentax BG2 Battery Grip (more about this later...)
I previously owned a Canon EOS-10D 6.3MP Digital SLR with a Canon EF 17-40mm f/4L USM Ultra Wide Angle Zoom Lens & a Canon EF 75-300mm f/4-5.6 IS USM Telephoto Zoom Lens with the usual filters and accoutrements - I owned the whole kit since 2003 and used it extensively through Mexico, the States, Europe & Africa - all in all an excellent camera and lenses.
After recently becoming "savvy" on the new technology available - I decided to "upgrade" myself to bigger resolutions and newer "pluses" - I did extensive research and finally decide on three candidates:
1- Leica DIGILUX 3   7.5MP Digital SLR Camera (with Leica D 14-50mm f/2.8-3.5 ASPH Lens) with Optical Image Stabilization.
2 - Sigma SD14 14MP Digital SLR.
3 - Pentax K10D 10.2MP Digital SLR Camera (with Shake Reduction.)
After extensive research and reading many reviews regarding these three cameras - I came to the conclusion that the Pentax was going to be the better choice for the money over the amount of features, reliability and brand performance - in other words I definitely think that I'm getting more "bang-for-my-buck" over my other two choices.  The reasons I did not choose the other two were: 
Leica - of course is legendary and their lenses are superb - unfortunately this camera was compared too often to the Panasonic DMC-L1 - actually it was a joint venture between the two companies - that kind of "cheapened" the Leica on my view - no offence to Panasonic Lumix owners - is not just what I was looking for / "not my cup of tea." Also, the technology / features that the kit contained were too little for the price.  My other choice in Leica was the M8 - just a dream of a camera, but way out of my regular "Joe Blow" budget! - This is the camera I would have if price was no object - but reality strikes you hard!
Sigma SD14 - I am still very intrigued by this camera and the technology it uses - maybe when it is a bit more proven and upgraded in a few features I will do the "jump" into the Sigma realm - the experts keep calling it the "wildcard."
As for the brand I used - Canon - nothing wrong with it - it is just that the competition -  Pentax and Sigma are offering a better rounded package than what they are offering at the moment - I was interested on the Canon EOS 5D - which I could've used my old lenses - but for the price and the offerings, others give more.
So... I finally decided to "shoot out of the box..." and leave the market dominated by Canon and Nikon and try a different flavor this time around.
Conclusion:  I am extremely pleased with my choice of the Pentax K10D over the other venerable brands (especially Leica!) - the camera does have some issues: speed of auto focus (not consistent, but adequate) - speed of continuous shooting (again not consistent, but adequate) - the battery grip is useful as it can automatically switch to a 2nd battery - very handy - I just wish that they would've applied the same concept to the SD card compartment - it is just for storage - it does not switch for photo recording purposes - I just find it a bit silly to stop and remove the card from the compartment, do the "switcharoo" with the used card and replace the compartment back on the grip - I know... moans-and-complaints!
Overall compared to my previous equipment - this is by far the best camera that I've owned.  
I've used: Minolta (film) - Olympus (film) - Leica (film) - Sony Mavica (digital) - Canon (digital.)
I've already tried it using both lenses in a variety of sceneries - high daylight, dawn, lots of shadows, nature, etc - and I am nothing but extremely pleased with the results!