ID: B00005IBX9-R3RVGQAX17PNWA-A28UWPYA9LMQ2S
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1200-Central-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A28UWPYA9LMQ2S
ReviewerName: J. Strider
Date: January 16, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Please Read!!! Give this coffee maker a chance
Content:
I have had quite an experience with this coffee maker...  I decided to try this coffee maker after much consideration of price, aesthetics, and of course quality of coffee produced... as I drink several cups daily.  After scouring over reviews of several models I finally decided on the brew central, mainly because of the moderate price compared with say a top of the line technivorm maker.  When I received the coffee maker I tried making a pot with fresh burr ground 100% kona coffee at 1 tbsp per cup.  What I got was a weak awful mess of sludge. Much like some of the 1 star reviews on this model, I tried everything I could think of to get a decent cup of coffee. Doubling or tripling the coffee to cup ratio, changing the fineness of grind, tried other types of roast (espresso), nothing worked.  After all of this experimentation, I came to the conclusion that the water was just not getting near hot enough to brew coffee properly.  I was severely disappointed and did not ever want to buy anything Cuisinart ever again.  After I took a few deep breaths and thought about it for a little while I went back to the reviews, and realized that there is no way this many people would rate this machine 5 stars with the awfulness that was coming out of my machine.  So against my better judgment I swallowed my new hatred for Cuisinart and returned my machine to amazon to exchange with the same model again.  Once I got the new machine I made my first pot and It was perfect!  I'm not saying it was the best cup of coffee I've ever had, but this machine is capable of producing a solid cup of coffee suitable for everyday use.  
I guess the moral of the story is give this machine a chance.  It seems that maybe 1-3% of machines just have some sort of defect with the heating element that makes the coffee awful. I guess I was just one of the unlucky minorities.  Am I thrilled I had to return my coffee maker and waste a whole bag of nice coffee...No, but in the end I am very pleased with the coffee maker I have now and It makes great coffee and looks great on my counter. Please give this coffee maker a fighting chance.