ID: B00008UI0R-R2YMB0VPMPH9UN-A8W8G7NXAHDQT
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A8W8G7NXAHDQT
ReviewerName: A Customer
Date: February 5, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 2.0
Title: Hoover customer service disappoints
Content:
After moving into a new house with much thicker carpet (and more of it!) than I previously had, I decided to upgrade my vacuum as my current vacuum was taking a beating. I researched vacuums and decided on the Hoover S3765-040 WindTunnel model. 
All was fine for the first two months until, in the middle of vacuuming, it stopped working. Yes, just stopped working. After checking for clogs and trying different electric outlets, there was still no response. I checked the warranty information card included with the vacuum instructions and, of course, there was no service center listed in Indiana on the card that was enclosed. Following the directions regarding what to do if there was no service center listed in your area (call a toll-free number or visit Hoover's website), I proceeded to the website to download a list of service centers in my area. I sent my husband to the vacuum store, on his day off, only to find that out of EVERY SERVICE STORE listed on the website for the Indianapolis area, NONE OF THEM were official service centers for Hoover (please, please tell me why they are listed on the website then?). Fortunately, the gentleman at the vacuum store was nice enough to call around and find an official Hoover service center in the area for us. Lo and behold, the only service center for the area was NOT listed on the website. Frustrating for sure, but at least we found a place to service it.
Since the vacuum was so new, the manager at this store decided to send it back to Hoover and request a replacement. No problem, I think it's only fair I receive a replacement since my first one failed. However, he then informed us that is would take Hoover 4-6 WEEKS to deliver my new vacuum! Now, up until this point, I was handling the failure of my vacuum semi-well (kinda upset it broke down so soon, but sometimes, these things happen), but tell me I have to wait 4-6 weeks for a new one, come on! I didn't even have to wait that long for delivery after I ordered it, and now Hoover is telling me I have to wait 4-6 weeks because they sent me a faulty vacuum in the first place. Ridiculous. Not too mention the hassles of trying to find a place to service it...
While the vacuum seemed to be fundamentally fine (except for the handle that won't stay upright), if you should happen on bad luck like I have and need service, be prepared for a long, drawn-out, unsatisfying resolution -- if you can find a service center. I must admit this whole experience has really soured me to Hoover and I will probably look elsewhere when my replacement vacuum dies after another two months.