ID: B00005MF9C-R3IQH9WP30YG2W-AG6JJG6UOKBX
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-DCM18S-Personal-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: AG6JJG6UOKBX
ReviewerName: Dr. Rob
Date: February 22, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great product!!
Content:
My wife had gotten into the habit of going to the local convenience store (Turkey Hill) and spending $1.50/day for her morning jolt. Well, I felt that was a bit much. We went away for a B&B weekend and they had the fancy Keurig brewer with the neato K-cups. I don't drink coffee but she does. "We NEED this!!!!" she tells me (which is her way of saying, "Buy this for me today, or else...").
So I went to amazon.com to look at the cost. $100+!!! Not acceptable. So I poked around and found the Brew `n Go. At about 1/4 the price, I thought it would be a better option. Plus, you can always return it to Amazon if dissatisfied.
Got it and now use it daily. It is SO simple and has many great features. First off, NO MORE PAPER FILTERS. The plastic insert has a special plastic membrane that holds the coffee and keeps the grinds out of the cup. Second, the water reservoir feeds the water into a cover that closes over the top of the coffee grinds. It has about 9 holes, so the water drips through ALL the grinds, not just the center. Third, you're done in under three minutes (no kidding) start to finish. If you need to read the instructions on how to use this most basic machine, then you shouldn't be allowed to drive or use a knife because you're probably a danger to society. Fourth, the travel mug is great because you brew it right into the mug, pop the lid on, and off to work you go without spills.
When you get right down to it, it's the coffee grinds that make the coffee taste good, not the fancy apparatus that holds them. Of course, my wife liked the K-cups and all their fancy flavors. Solution? Buy the K-cups, cut a hole in the foil top, and pour out the grinds into the B&D plastic holder. Voila! Keurig coffee from a less expensive machine. Of course, many grocery stores now sell dozens of flavors you can grind yourself, so I don't think K-cups are needed. But when your wife wants something...
K-cups are pretty expensive at 60 cents/serving, but I found them online for 50, which is more reasonable. Of course, if you like Maxwell House or other store bought stuff, it will be MUCH cheaper.
With the Keurig, you HAVE to use the K-cups (the design is pretty neat actually). However, you can pop out the K-cup holder (not so easy) and put in a plastic filter insert similar to the B&D one. However, this insert costs $20 at Bed Bath & Beyond, which is what my Brew 'n Go unit costs for the whole thing.
I've read the other reviews, and all the comments that are negative reflect improper use of the product in my opinion. For a fast, easy to use, simple machine, this is the one you want. Unless, of course, you want to pay $100, and want to pop out the K-cup holder and insert an expensive insert so you can use your own coffee. In which case, by all means, buy the Keurig. But I guarantee the coffee won't be any better than the B&D Brew `n Go. It's water going through coffee people. This is not neurosurgery.
Now, I know the Keurig has the choice of Small or Large cup. The B&D uses as much water as you want (and water is basically free). So, we always fill the travel mug with tap water, then pour it into the water reservoir. When it's done brewing, it automatically shuts off (it knows when the water tank is empty). If you want to drink less coffee, either 1) pour some out (duh!) or 2) stop before you can see the bottom of the mug! Why anybody needs to pay extra for a button to do what you can easily do yourself is beyond me.
If you want the coffee weaker, guess what? Use FEWER grinds!! Stronger? Add MORE grinds. Another useless Keurig button on the fancy models.
By the way. I DID buy paper filters to see if it made a difference. It did not, so when the box was empty, I didn't buy replacements. And I bet you won't either.
Update 3/19/10
I got one for my mother, who is incapable of using cruise control or a remote control (get the picture???). Well, she LOVES it and has had no problems using it once I spent five minutes instructing her on how to add water and coffee grinds. Best of all, no 6 am calls with "Rob, what am I supposed to do with the thingamajig whatzitcalled part that doesn't seem to fit??" because it has precisely two parts and they go in ONLY one place and in one direction. This is as foolproof as it gets. And even she learned that for stronger coffee just add more coffee grinds! If you like a single cup of coffee in under three minutes, then this is the best machine around. If you're having a dinner party with 20 guests, you're out of luck (but then again, that's not what this is advertised to do). REPEAT: This is for ONE cup at a time, although it makes cups so quickly that we have served four guests after dinner with no difficulty whatsoever. This was the answer to my wife's coffee prayers, and remains so after one year. Try to beat that at this ridiculously low price point.