ID: B00005LEXJ-R19NIMHOL4LNBF-ADLWHRWMI6NC5
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Mr-Heater-Single-Tank-Top-Propane
ReviewerID: ADLWHRWMI6NC5
ReviewerName: Thomas A. Clark
Date: January 11, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Heater
Content:
This is a great heater.  I almost didn't buy it because of another review here on Amazon.  
I live in Utah, and that other review was from someone else in Utah.  His review was not favorable, and he complained about odors.  I feared the high altitude of Utah may have been causing this reviewer's heater to have incomplete combustion.  So I'd decided not to buy it, expecting similar problems.  But then I found it on sale for $35 and decided to give it a try.  I used teflon tape around the threads and have had no odor problems at all--not from propane or incomplete combustion.
With propane at $3.00 a gallon, I figure it costs me about $0.25 per hour to run the heater on low.  I use it in an open area where my family room connects to the dining room and kitchen area.  I don't run it all the time, just when we're feeling a little chilly or we're all in this part of the house, and I don't want to heat the rest of the house.  
My thermostat is in the dining area, and this little heater raises the temperature of the entire area by three degrees when it runs on low.  That may not sound like much, but it keeps us much warmer and prevents the furnace in the basement from kicking on. 
Now for the disclaimer.  I never leave the heater unattended.  Also, the product instructions have plenty of warnings telling you not to use this as an indoor heater without ventilation such as an open window.  Yeah right, I'm going to open the window and let 20 degree air in so I can run my little heater.  I think that would be a net loss in house temperature.  
So I run it without any outside ventilation at all.  However, I do have a carbon monoxide monitor in the dining area and have had no problems.  I also have a gas meter that will check oxygen and carbon monoxide concentrations.
I would not recommend using this heater in a single closed in area.  I tried it in the room above my garage, probably 20 x 20, and in there, I did get some odors.  On the other hand, it heated the space up very quickly and then I turned the heater off.
If you choose to ignore the ventilation warnings that come with the product, please don't blame me.