ID: B000OV85NE-R24LIQ7ZHNQ2EQ-A2YAK7IU83TV97
Category: MP3Players
Product: SanDisk-Sansa-Shaker-Player-Pink
ReviewerID: A2YAK7IU83TV97
ReviewerName: Lil A's Mommy "Lil A's Mommy"
Date: February 19, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Perfect for kids - and great for the price!
Content:
I researched MP3 players for my 4 yr old for months before deciding which one to get her for Christmas. I decided on the Sansa Shaker 512MB (at the time I was looking they did not have the 1GB option). I could not be happier with the purchase. When reading reviews you could read 10 good and 1 bad and just not know what you are buying. Even though there were a few lower reviews for this I bought it anyhow. BOY, am I glad I did. The speaker function is great. My daughter likes the headphones and has no problem wearing them in the car or when we ask her to but otherwise she just plays it out loud and dances around the room with her sister. 
It is a bit of a pain that you have to convert the files to MP3s but not so much of a pain that you'd not get the item. I transfer whole CDs at a time for her and it only takes a few minutes. 
As other reviewers have mentioned, our "shaker" function does not work either - and trust me, she's shaken the thing! Not that big of a deal though. She knows how to move it to the next song by using the ring at the bottom. She also had no issues using the power button. You do have to hold it down for a few seconds but it makes a little sound when it's shutting off so she knows it's done it. 
She's used it a considerable amount since Christmas and I've only had to change the battery once. It's nice that it just takes a AAA battery because you don't have to connect it to the computer to recharge it.
I did find that she was dropping it on the floor while dancing or she'd set it down and it would fall so I added a neck lanyard to the clip thing on the side so she can wear it around her neck. Voila! Problem fixed!
This is well worth the price you pay. My own MP3 player was three times the price and just died out of the blue. I'm thinking of getting one of these for myself except for it has no display, which is nice if you are an adult.