ID: B0000SW02S-RJRLJSGIA70NW-A28D5SPQ5MFVOI
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Seabreeze-Wall-ThermaFlo-Bathroom-Heater
ReviewerID: A28D5SPQ5MFVOI
ReviewerName: Sister Cuthbert
Date: October 14, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: flawed design but worth the purchase
Content:
Designed AND constructed in Canada, where they understand the need for staying warm! The design is brilliant but flawed by the assumption that all proper grounded bathroom 2-plug outlets will fit within their wall-mount box; the standard boxes our electricians installed a few months ago are too big, making it impossible to plug the unit in if you follow their instructions. However, good bathroom heaters are hard to find and it's easy to work around this (and other criticisms of this item): 1. Using the holes indicated on the wall-mount box, screw it into your bathroom wall anywhere within about 3-5 inches above your bathroom outlet (test in advance to be sure the short cord will still reach the outlet). We use 1.5 inch wood screws and happen to know that the wiring doesn't go above our outlet but you might want to adjust location depending on where your wires are in the wall. 2. Don't bother with the "dummy" plastic 3-hole piece they include; that's just to prevent you from accidentally overloading the outlet by using another device when the heater is on.  If you need to remind yourself, it might work as a stand-alone dummy plug, or you could cap off the second outlet, or just remember and use common sense.
3. Now just hook the heater onto the wall-mount box. It's quite secure unless you're rough with it. But if you're worried about accidentally knocking it off the box, it is possible to thread a wire or large paper clip between the plastic grill and the mount box (common sense again: do this when everything is unplugged and try to be sure the wire doesn't touch anything inside the heater; and use metal, not anything that's flammable!).  The above took about 10 minutes.  That's for our bathroom fan; we bought two. The second one works fine in our unheated kitchen, follow the same instructions for screwing wall-mount into the wall wherever you want it, or even can safely stand on its side inside a metal box with some air space at the back in a location where it can't possibly get knocked over. We are the careful types so we simply use a heavy duty (14 gauge or larger--meaning 13-12--and guaranteed to handle 1875 watts: NOT a flimsy or ordinary) extension cord to reach the nearest available grounded plug (again, don't share the plug with other devices when the heater is on). Again, this is 10 minutes work.  Result is a beautiful, small, attractive, affordable little heater that is safe, quiet, and Canadian-quality toasty!