ID: B0006BK51M-R223JKJKNXHPWS-A1GWV8D9XCJIA8
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-MuVo-Micro-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A1GWV8D9XCJIA8
ReviewerName: Der Schwarzfahrer
Date: November 10, 2004
Helpful: 17 of 18
Rating: 5.0
Title: my new N200
Content:
I'm a non-technophile, I just want to listen to music as quickly and easily as possible, and the MuVo N200 allows me to do precisely that.  Its plug-n-play and jog away.
 
Purchased Nov. 9th, the 256 MB model.  Within minutes of getting it out of the box the N200 was on my computer via the provided USB cable and I began dragging and dropping music files into it.  Turned the N200 on and music came flowing out, exactly what I wanted.  Didnt install the software til later, and didnt need to.  Thats how flexible, easy and intuitive the device is to use.
PROS:
1.)  Size - its so small, and very light weight too.  The Professor/Boss will never know you have it in your pocket.
2.)  LED screen - nice back-lighting with easy-to-surf menu.
3.)  Sound quality is very good, and the Equalizer can be custom-set so it sounds exactly as you like it.  Excellent!
4.)  Somewhat less expensive than many others I compared.
5.)  4-button control design is great.  One button is for power/play/pause/off, depending how long the buttom is depressed.  Two others are dedicated to volume high/low.  And the last one is a wheel for selecting menu funtions, press the wheel in to confirm a selection.  Brilliantly simple.  Fits in the palm of the hand and the buttons are easy to recognize by feel alone.
6.)  Every option is included - comes with an energizer battery, an arm band, a nice protective carry case, an USB cable (these arent cheap) and another cable for patching directly into other audio devices:
7.)  One can record from any audio source now, even the FM radio.  It also has a microphone to record and send message files to your girlfriend...trust me, this helps justify the new toy.
8.)  Battery life seems very good so far.  5 hours of loud playing and only 1/3 drop in the battery indicator.
9.)  Name of song being played scrolls across screen during entire song.  Plus time song has been playing and EQ setting.
10.)  Has super fast USB 2 port capability.  But still recognized the slow 1.1 USB port on my old computer and that worked fine too.  Flexibility, I like that.
11.)  *I've heard* that the warranty on this item has been extended compared to previous models, but cant confirm this yet. 
See gripes about web support below.
Bottom line:  I love this thing.  It does exactly what it says it would do and the price is right.  Its EASY to use and offers extraordinary flexibility across platforms.  You can get music from just about anything now, just dont forget the cables.
CONS:
not to be pessimistic, but this is the most important part in evaluating a potential new purchase:
1.)  Earphones - if you've read reviews of other CREATIVE products then you know the earphones are nothing to write about, so I'll end it here.  Buy your own, they're not expensive.
2.)  FM radio reception only does well with the very strongest of stations.  Mildly strong stations cut in and out while moving about and weaker ones are all static.  Reception is far inferior compared to my 10 year old Walkman so its not me, its the N200.
3.)  Funny, faint buzzing sound every time the LCD backlight is on...which is anytime one pushes a button.  Not a bother really.
4.)  The order of the songs loaded onto the N200 is instantly alphabetized.  Does not retain the order in which you load them or attempt to re-arrange them in Windows.  I've heard there is a way around this, but I dont know how to make play-lists.  I'm no technophile and I dont want to be, I just want to hear music.  This affect/feature is a little annoying.
5.)  Web support - so far I have none.  Tried to register the new product using the included software and continuously received failure messages.  Then it gives the option to register online, so I tried this and found that the N200 is not yet listed as a product on the registration site, so that failed.  I sent technical support an email asking what to do.  Still waiting for an answer.  So I cant determine my warranty details.  I'm sure they'll work it out eventually.
6.)  The case is fragile looking/feeling.  Make use of the nice rubberized carrying case included.
7.)  Menu is nice and easy to use, but the organization is a little random.  Makes it hard to flip flop between FM music and the mp3.  You have to stop jogging and fiddle through the menu.  Once I accidentally erased my station pre-set instead of turning it on.  This menu might have been more logically organized, and almost prevents a 5-star rating.  More like 4 3/4 stars.
8.)  The instruction manual is a little sparse on info, but certainly adequate to get a 'Quick Start', since this thing is so intuitive anyway.
Overall I really like this device and recommend it highly.  Its' a lot of bang for the buck.