ID: B000V5QV4S-R2BC2DNB6NO1CO-A1H935Q6BR1JF9
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-40D-Digital-28-135mm-Standard
ReviewerID: A1H935Q6BR1JF9
ReviewerName: Joshua M. Henly
Date: July 19, 2008
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very pleased with my 40D so far
Content:
Background
----------
New to SLR/dSLR.  I've been shooting a variety of digital P&S cameras for about 8 years.  
Motivation
----------
Kept missing potentially great shots of my newborn due to slow P&S performance; indoor/low-light pictures rarely turned out nice; couldn't get a good shot of birds to save my life!  dSLR looked like it could address these problems.
Decision Process
----------------
I decided on Canon, in part due to a relative to who has a nice collection of 'L' glass that I hope to borrow.  :)  I was waffling between the XTi/XSi on value/features, and I became aware of Canon's rebate on the 40D.  So I went to a camera shop and tried out the 40D, the XSi, and the XTi.  The 40D felt perfect in my hands, while the Rebel bodies felt small and awkward.  It was just a matter of time before I convinced myself that the 40D with 28-135mm kit lens was worth the few hundred dollar premium over the XSi or XTi kit packages.
Experience So Far
-----------------
I'm very pleased with most aspects of my 40D.  Some warned that SLR photography was terribly complicated, and that I should start off on a "simpler" camera.  But I've found it's simple enough learn the basic concepts, master them, and then gradually learn more advanced techniques.  The 40D is a great tool for learning about photography. I'm spending almost all my time in Manual mode, and most of my pictures are coming out much better than I was getting with my P&S cameras.  Plus, I'm having a blast with my new hobby!
What I like
-----------
+ Image quality.  If I do my job and get the exposure right, IQ is really great.  I'm also learning about how to post-process to recover photos where I blew the exposure a bit.
+ Viewfinder.  I was concerned that I'd have trouble using the viewfinder, since I was so accustomed to using the LCD as a "live view" with my P&S cameras.  Not so.  I adapted to the bright and informative viewfinder immediately.
+ Speed.  Startup time, taking a first shot, followup shots...all nearly instantaneous.  6.5 shots/second is astounding compared to my P&S cameras.
+ High-ISO performance.  I'm very picky about noise, but ISO800 looks great on the 40D, and ISO1600 isn't bad.  This would be unthinkable on my P&S cameras.  The good high-ISO noise performance allows me to shoot more confidently in lower-light situations, and not have to use the flash as much.
+ Ergonomics.  The 40D feels great in my hands.  Heavier and bulkier than the Rebel line, but at just over 1.5 lbs it still feels comfortable to me even when I'm out shooting for a couple hours.
+ Menu/layout.  Some complain about redundancy of the dials and joystick, but I don't mind having more choices.  Since I'm in Manual mode shooting RAW most of the time, many of the menu settings simply aren't relevant to me.  It took me maybe 2 days to get comfortable navigating and finding what I needed.
+ LCD.  Nice and big, clear and bright.
+ Battery life.  I'm getting around 500 images on a single charge -- very happy with that.
+ Auto Focus.  For the most part, AF has been dead-on accurate and fast.
+ 28-135mm IS lens.  I've had good luck shooting macros, portraits, landscapes, and everything in between.  This lens is probably a bit outdated, but it is capable of taking really nice pictures.  I think it's a great lens for a beginner to learn on.
What I don't like
-----------------
- Power switch.  What's been reported is true: the power switch is in a goofy and annoying location.  It's not a deal-breaker, but Canon should change this when they update the 40D.
- Low-light AF.  Sometimes in low-light situations the AF "hunts" for something to focus on.  I don't know whether to blame the 40D or the 28-135mm lens.
- LCD.  While the LCD is bright and easy to see, the 40D is well behind competing brands in the number of pixels in the display.  More pixels could help the photographer determine with better accuracy whether a shot is in focus.  Along the same lines, the camera uses a small thumbnail JPEG in the LCD display, so it is impossible even to zoom in and determine with certainty whether the shot was in focus.
- Print button.  What a waste of a perfectly good button!  :)
Bottom Line
-----------
From my experiences so far, I highly recommend the 40D.  With Canon's rebate it's a fantastic camera for the price.  You can probably take just as good pictures with an XTi or XSi, so if you're interested in a Canon in this price range, be sure to try out all three before making a decision.  For me, the ergonomic and speed advantages of the 40D were well worth the price differential.
This is a camera that can be put to good use by amateurs and professionals alike.  Technology moves fast, and I'm sure in a year from now some of the features of the 40D will seem dated.  But right now, in the summer of 2008, it's a really great value.