ID: B00008UI0R-R9B8DYGVRGPLY-A1HB6QCNV4YJ3O
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A1HB6QCNV4YJ3O
ReviewerName: Gr8Cook "5dog_ma"
Date: October 24, 2006
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 4.0
Title: SO FAR SO GOOD!
Content:
I just received my vacuum cleaner and thanks Amazon for the two day delivery at no extra charge!  The vacuum was easy to assemble and came with all the extra accessories inclusive in the price.  Having previously owned a Sears Kenmore which cost me twice as much, the only difference I found was in the weight of the head and size of the cannister.  In short time, the Kenmore started falling apart and it was heavy and difficult to maneuver.  I cleaned the entire house with the Hoover today and found it much easier to maneuver, lighter, smaller and the head made it easier to get around small areas and under furniture.  The carpet setting sets it off like a self propelled lawnmower and had to really hold onto it and miss the swivel to avoid bumping the top of the wand going under things.  It cleaned the rugs and floors very well and the edge cleaner is a great extra.  I have to say that for the money, I am very impressed with it's power and cleaning.  I've never seen so much dirt and dust come out of a vacuum cleaner.  The cup is easy to remove and clean as is the filter.  I will not miss the added expense of bags.  I can understand the complaints about breakage in other reviews as many parts are plastic.  This will require attention in avoiding bumping and hard use.  The wheels are large and the cannister is compact and easy to lift and carry around.  The wand telescopes long enough to avoid back strain.  I give it four stars only because it is constructed in lightweight plastic and I don't get the feeling of a solid construction.  But with TLC and avoidance of harsh handling, it should hold up well.  I emphasize on its cleaning performance and quieter operation with variable selections.  I now look forward to vacuuming again and hopefully, will last me years.