ID: B0007Y793K-R15UXJJ6Q4YA3X-A19PC895OQGTNK
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-1D-Mark-II-Digital
ReviewerID: A19PC895OQGTNK
ReviewerName: Mohamad Ameer M. Alkhamees
Date: August 27, 2006
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: To hell with lower serious of Canon's SLR mounts
Content:
This what i discovered when i've used my brand new 1D markIIN
Well, I have to say that I am truly impressed with this camera. A friend of mine got his about a month ago, so I have played with it a little bit, but since I got mine on thursday, I have really gotten to explore the many features and performance differences beween this camera and the 20D that I upgraded from. 
Having used a few original 1D cameras, a 1D mark II, the 20D with battery grip and a 5D, the size and weight of this camera really doesnt bother me (I have heard so many people complain about the size and weight before...) I actually really like the feel of the 1D mark II N. There is only a slight difference between the original 1D Mark II's feel and the N, but if you hold them side by side you notice it. 
The autofocus is absolutely stunning. Having used a 20D for a year and a half, I had forgotten how nice it is to have those 45 highly sensitive autofocus points! As soon as you pick up this camera and hold that shutter button half way down, you realize why this is the #1 choice of many of the best photojournalists. 
The body construction is the highest quality I have ever seen in a camera, but of course is very similar, if not identical to the other 1D series cameras. Compared to the 20D and 5D though, this thing just feels solid. 
Another stunning feature is, of course, the speed at which the 1D Mark II N can capture images... 8.5 frames per second! Just as the 1D and 1D Mark II have done for the past few years, this camera holds its own to all other cameras in its class, with 22 frame raw bursts at 8.5 frames per second. I hardly ever shoot jpeg, but i did test it and found the 48 frame buffer to be quite impressive. Packing two 2 gig Sandisk Ultra II cards (a CF and an SD) I have the capacity for about 450 total shots. 
The screen, of course, is fantastic, and blows any Nikon camera's menu and image review quality out of the water. 
The 1.3x crop factor is certainly an improvement over the 20D's 1.6x, and the bigger sensor definitely yields better image quality in low light due to the lower signal-to-noise ratio. Overall, color reproduction, metering, exposure and sharpness are all much better than the 20D. 
since i love wildlife photography I have been able to get 75% more caption information than I ever did with my pervious cameras
The camera performs great in the studio, and images are beautiful, as would be expected. I have yet to make any photographic prints from this camera, but I'm sure they will look stunning.