ID: B000G1CXZ8-R2TF979PPWA6G8-A1ZM846Y7AUYD
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-TCH6590ER-Ceramic-Tower-Heater
ReviewerID: A1ZM846Y7AUYD
ReviewerName: M. Pickering
Date: January 9, 2008
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 4.0
Title: Quality Ceramic Heater With Comforting Safety Features
Content:
Many people have complained about the temperature control of this heater.  It is true that the unit runs at high heat/speed when the auto temperature control mode is selected, but that doesn't bother me whatsoever.  My wife and I use this heater in a downstairs master bedroom; just to take the chill out of the air in the early morning or late evening hours.  The unit heats up our 16'x14' room very quickly and produces very little noise.  The remote control is an awesome inclusion, and the oscillating feature is very useful as well.  
Pros
****
-  High and Low temperature settings (with associated high and low fan speeds)
-  Fully automatic temperature control mode
-  Tower oscillates on base to spread the heat throughout the room
-  Full-featured remote control included (batteries for remote also included)
-  Backlit LCD display shows current temperature, selected temperature, mode of operation, and timer setting (when in use)
-  Overtemp protection shuts off heater automatically if it gets too hot!
-  Tip-over protection shuts off heater if unit is tipped even slightly
-  Handy timer control lets you select how long you wish for the heater to operate
-  Front of heater remains cool enough to prevent burns if accidentally touched
-  Quiet operation should prevent disruption of sleep for all but the lightest sleepers
-  Built-in handle makes it easy to move from room to room
-  Small footprint takes up very little space (tucks nicely into a corner)
Cons
****
-  Tip-over protection is very touchy; shuts off heater if the unit is barely bumped
-  Backlighting for LCD only remains lit for a few seconds, making it very hard to read the dark display
-   Large red LED light indicates unit is plugged in rather that showing if unit is actually on
-  Tower base is not weighted nearly enough to prevent unit from easily tipping
I guess the fact that the auto temperature control can only be used in high mode can be considered a con, but it really isn't a bother for my wife and I.  The low setting produces far less heat and would require the heater to run much longer anyway, so it only makes sense to have the unit running in high heat mode to raise the room temperature as quickly as possible.  Also, the actual environment temperature is measured at the top of the heater itself, which of course is going to register warmer than most of the rest of the room it is heating.  Therefore the heater tends to shut off (when in full-auto mode) before the room has reached the desired temperature, as the area close to the unit warms up enough to satisfy the thermostat quite quickly.  The front of the unit does get fairly hot, and I would not recommend touching the metal grille while the unit is running, but it doesn't get hot enough to burn you if you accidently touch it briefly.  The front grille cools down very quickly after the unit is shut off, so it is perfectly safe to touch just seconds after it powers down.
Overall this DeLonghi Ceramic Tower Heater is a good buy.  It has the important safety features that cautious consumers desire, and the included remote control and oscillating feature make this heater efficient and very easy to use and control.  I also find this heater quite stylish and high tech looking.  It warms the surrounding air quickly and the fan is fairly quiet.  I think most people would be very pleased with this heater.