ID: B00023NFCA-R3P9KBJJ7RD39F-AXK7YDELIX1ZA
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Minolta-7D-Digital-Anti-Shake-Technology
ReviewerID: AXK7YDELIX1ZA
ReviewerName: Wade A
Date: August 9, 2005
Helpful: 20 of 20
Rating: 5.0
Title: The photographer's digital SLR! Anti-Shaken, not stirred!
Content:
If you are looking for a semi-pro digital SLR that can take pictures of the family at Disney or in your professional studio, this is it. It won't break your budget, and you will be the "Apple" user of the DSLR prosumer market. (i.e., secretly envied by Canon and Nikon users, but most won't admit it!). 
This camera has some real positives over other manufacturer's cameras in the same class. First and foremost, it has 'anti-shake' built into the camera body. For those that don't know, this is similar to the "steadycam" technology used on consumer camcorders to help stabilize your shots. There is one big difference between Konica-Minolta's implementation and everyone else's on the market: you get anti-shake built into the body of the Maxxum 7D! What does this mean? It means virtually EVERY lense you buy is now anti-shake! Every other manufacturer makes you buy special lenses that have a similar feature built into the LENSE, not the BODY. 
YES, it really works to. A convenient little indicator inside the viewfinder tells you just how much anti-shake each shot is needing. 
Wouldn't it be great to quickly change almost any option on your DSLR camera and get back to shooting pictures without delay? Ever tried to change some feature, only to have to wade through two or three levels of menus on some small LCD? This is not only frustrating, but embarrasing! Imagine your wedding party not having to wait for you to make adjustments or you are at some sports event and the opportunity to take the picture is a one shot deal. No more! The Maxxum 7D has no top LCD. That's right...this is a positive- NO top LCD. Instead, almost every major function can be changed with a knob or button on the top or side of the camera. Yes, this presents a little bit of a learning curve. Yes, I was a little nervous about Konica-Minolta's choice to go this way in the design. I can tell you now, after less than a week of ownership, I love it!
In addition, there are hundreds of lenses and accessories available for this camera, the body itself feels solid and comfortable, the 2" LCD screen on the back is enormous compared to the competition, the camera can save in RAW and JPEG format AT THE SAME TIME, and for a DSLR, it is just plain fun to shoot with.  
The ONLY drawback I have found is that Konica-Minolta chose 6 megapixels for this model, while some of the competing models are at 8 megapixels. Honestly, if you know photography, the difference between 6 and 8 megapixels is really non-existent to 99% of those who would view your photos. If you are trying to decide between the Canon D20 and the Maxxum 7D for example, the anti-shake feature FAR outweighs any small benefit you could get from the additional megapixels on other models. (This camera's features really should be compared with camera's like the Canon D20, and not the entry level Canon Rebel XT line). 
One other feature no one seems to have mentioned is the built in Depth of Field Preview button. This is a really convenient feature that allows you to check and see your depth of field before taking the shot. (Depth of field is simply how much of the background is your picture is in focus. For example, a close up portrait might have the background out of focus while a shot of the mountains will have everything in focus). 
Overall, this camera will meet almost any level photographer's needs. Although the controls have a small learning curve, within less than an hour of shooting you will love them. Whether you have a lot of photography experience, or almost none at all, this is one digital SLR you should really consider.