ID: B0006HTPQ2-R14URD3LRPNFM6-AGJFS0PXN8HB3
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-M9800LL-Silver-MODEL
ReviewerID: AGJFS0PXN8HB3
ReviewerName: Samantha "Samantha"
Date: August 8, 2005
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: My two cents
Content:
After doing lots of research on all the competitors' mp3 players, I ended up sticking with Apple in spite of the issues I had with my 15gb 3rd generation ipod (namely, that the battery was defective from day 1--it did not hold a charge for more than 4 hours, and when I plugged it into my computer the battery drained very quickly whereas it was supposed to charge).
The reason I made this decision was because 1. I wanted to still be able to use the songs I had downloaded from Itunes 2. I like the design best 3. I didn't want to learn new hardware/software 4.I don't like Creative's hardware or software and they seem to be the next best alternative.
Here's what I think now that I've owned it about 1 month:
1. This one does not have a defective battery.  Woohoo!
2. I don't know how long the battery lasts.  I doubt it is 18 hours, but it hasn't run out on me unexpectedly yet.
3. It does actually charge when connected to my PC.
4. Norton Antivirus is not compatible with Itunes 4.9!!! You must disable Norton, disable its function to load when you startup your computer, and restart your computer if you want itunes to work.  Wow, did I have a lot of trouble with this. Still haven't figured out how to have Norton on and Itunes open simultaneously.
5. Itunes seems to have some difficulty recognizing my Ipod.  Not  cool.  This is a new problem which I hope will go away.
6. It is so small and light I can barely tell it's in my pocket, and I am female (making this a much more significant feat, since we usually have smaller pockets and tighter pants than most men).  I also can barely notice it when it's on my armband at the gym--a vast improvement over the heavy 15gb.
7. Does not really hold 1000 songs if you have longer than average songs.  I have a lot of electronic music and that has bumped my ipod's capacity down to 874 songs.  Sigh.  Guess I should have bought the 6gb.
8. Shiny metallic surface scratches and removes the paint just by having it in a cluttered purse.  Put your ipod in something to protect it when it's not in your pocket.
9. McCally makes the best fm transmitter for your car.  I love mine.