ID: B0002XQJFA-R2VLHJZ7AXFNYZ-A21NKUK55XVMFZ
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Camera-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A21NKUK55XVMFZ
ReviewerName: Dave "www.eosrebels.com"
Date: November 27, 2005
Helpful: 40 of 40
Rating: 5.0
Title: How the 20D changed my life!
Content:
A year ago I sold my Digital Rebel on eBay and purchased the 20D.  I have since not looked back.  This camera has brought nothing but joy to myself and others.  The sharpness and colors from the famed Canon sensor are true to their reputation.  Friends and family all love the pictures that come out of this camera.  I take it with me almost everywhere I go.  
After selling my Rebel, I debated upgrading to the new Rebel XT or the 20D, which I'm sure many of you might be having right now before pulling the trigger.  I held both in my hand and played with them at the PMA tradeshow where the XT was introduced.  It was very light and felt very small in my hands.  I don't have exceptionally large hands, but the XT felt like it was designed for smaller hands.  That being said, it is a great travel partner to have being so compact and light-weight.  
The other drawback, however, is that the user interface is quite different from the 20D.  Although it may seem like a trivial feature, the dial navigation on the 20D has been immensely more convenient and practical when shooting compared to pressing the buttons on the Rebel or the XT.  I didn't like having to navigate through the ISO or other changes to white balance via the LCD screen.  I definitely think there's a reason why the 20D is more expensive beyond the fact that it has the solid magnesium alloy body.  The user interface for me was worth the extra money as well.  The more you take photos, the more you will realize the freedom that comes with controlling your aperture, shutter speed, white balance and more with the 20D interface versus the XT.  That being said, it is still several hundred dollars more expensive and the XT has pretty much the same sensor (just 0.2 fewer megapixels) with the same results in a different body.  So don't be concerned about getting inferior photos with the XT, because the differences are mostly all external.
I highly recommend getting the kit lens with either camera.  For an additional $70-100 it is well worth it just for the range and it has pretty decent quality results.  Bang for your buck it can't be beat.  Make sure you pick up a EF 50mm f/1.8 II USM lens for another $70-80.  This is a powerful little lens at a great price.  
(...)