ID: B000VDQ38E-R14ZD8YJCVN4D3-A2VJT7AGWPLWHV
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A2VJT7AGWPLWHV
ReviewerName: Doghouse "&#34;It's a dog's world&#34;"
Date: February 26, 2008
Helpful: 50 of 50
Rating: 5.0
Title: Multi Pet home must have
Content:
In short:  I finally have a vacuum that actually does what I need.  Read the long review to see what I mean.
  I'll be honest.  I destroy vacuums. I've had Hoovers, Dirt Devils, Kirby's, Eureka, and a few odd names I can't remember.  Why so many?  Well, my small house is home to 2 very active adults, 5 dogs (4 are over 85lbs), 3 Parrots, 2 turtles, and other animals I've fostered for a local rescue.  I vacuum daily, some times 2x.  I just received the Bissell 3920 Pet to replace my good ol' Hoover Fusion.  So as a test here's what I did:
Moved everything out of the rooms that have carpet. (2 rooms + hallway.)
Vacuumed with the Hoover in all directions so as to get up as much hair and dirt as I could.  Empty the cup and did it again.  Didn't get much the second time.  OK, carpet clean right?  
Assembled the Bissell.  Not to hard, just make sure you attach the cord wind area to the handle before putting in the screws.   
Lets look at how the design is:
1. It's huge and heavy.  It towers over my Hoover.  I'm almost 6' and the handle on this beast reaches almost to my chest.  Due to it's size, it seems that it's gonna be a pain to maneuver. (But it's not...)
2. Big plus here: The inlet from the rollers (where things get sucked up at) is not way out at one end.  This means a more even suction while in use.  Great design and it pulls in more junk! 
3. If there was 1 thing I would change it would be the cord reel.  It's only about 8" apart.  This thing has a 35' cord, that's gonna take a long time to wind up.
4. Filters are in easy to get to areas unlike most of the other vacuums I've had.
5. That pet hair attachment on the front folds nicely up out of the way, and stays there.
6. The attachments snap into place and stay out of the way.
7. Noise:  Actually, unless you're used to a really, really quiet vac, this thing is not that loud.  Then again, I have 2 Macaws, so noise isn't really an issue to me.
Ok, now to use it:
Plug it in, flick the switch, and it took off!  Uh, it's not self propelled right?  No, the roller is just that strong.  OK, re-adjust the height settings and we're good.  Just 2 passes and I already saw stuff flying around in the dirt cup.  Eh?  Remember I thought the size was going to make this hard to use?  Well, it rolls so easy it's like a 5lb vac!  So I finish all the carpets and well, it filled the cup!  As far as getting carpet clean, It works great. Pulled out hair I never even saw, got very close to the walls.  Even the carpet by the back door that gets all matted down and tracked in dirt on it looks great. 
Hard floors:  So I saw some reviews stating this thing does nothing on hard floors.  Well, hold on a sec let me try...  Ok, now I feel lazy. That was too easy.  I use a broom normally, I mean that's what they're made for right?  This Bissell picked up all the dog hair, bird seed and those really annoying fluff feathers like it was nothing!  Works good enough Mom won't know I didn't scrub it before she visits next time.
Now this critter has a few attachments for furniture and such, lets see how well they work...  OK, I just did my sectional couch in about 5 minutes with this turbo brush.  I've used these before and usually end up tossing them since they run on nothing but suction to drive the roller.  Normally, the roller stops moving once it comes in contact with the fabric on the furniture.  Uh, not this one.  Yes it's still suction driven, but this Bissell has enough suction that the roller never even slowed down!  No joke.  Ok, well that's all fine and dandy, but does it pick up 5 different types of dog hair.  YES! Long, medium, short, undercoat, and Bulldog! (if you ever had a bull dog you know what I mean.  Needle like hair that can't be pulled off.)
Unit is well balanced for as tall as it is.  Some have stated it falls over when using the attachments.  I didn't seem to have that problem, just make sure you push the handle all the way forward to lock it in place.  That also lifts the roller off the floor enough that it's not beating your carpet to death.
Well.  I'm impressed, and that takes a lot for me.  
All in all, the only 2 things I don't like are the cord reel and the power switch.  It's just in an odd place.
Is it worth the $150 I paid?  Yeah, and then some.  Of course only time will tell how long it will last but while I have it, it looks like it's gonna work great.
---The vac killer---