ID: B0007QKMR8-R1ZS35S9BFIYX3-A1ZJXU4R92UOF0
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-Camera
ReviewerID: A1ZJXU4R92UOF0
ReviewerName: M. Russo "mitchrusso"
Date: October 28, 2005
Helpful: 48 of 61
Rating: 4.0
Title: A Great Beginner's Camera, Still Doesn't Replace Film
Content:
But Close....  Here's the problem.  You can take good photos with anything, if you are careful, hold the camera steady or use a tripod and know how to make a photograph interesting. Years ago, I bought an Agfa ePhoto 1680.  The lens on this camera was wonderful.  I have 8x10's that are grainless and perfect which were taken at the equivilent of 1.8 megapixels. No one would ever think they were made with a digital camera.  I was careful not to exceed the contrast range of the sensor and the camera was on a tripod.  It's not resolution that makes a great picture, it's the picture that makes a good picture.  It's the technique and equipment that fade into the background to go unnoticed when a photograph is well executed.
OK, back to the Rebel XT.  Mine arrived and could not deliver a sharp image.  I tried everything but the camera was somehow malfunctioning.  I sent it back to Canon and 2 weeks later I recieved it back... fixed.  Now the images are sharp.  
Decided to compare this to film, used my EOS A2E with Kodachrome 64 to photograph landscapes on a beautiful summer day.  Soft light, tripod, beautiful conditions a sky filled with small puffy clouds, perfect.  I made six exposures then switched cameras to the Rebel XT.  Same 6, carefully exposed and checked.
I had chromes back in 3 days, decided to print one at a local lab.  I made a 16x20.  I then sent a raw file from the Rebel XT to a well known mail order lab and also received a 16x20 of the same basic exposure.
Two friends come over, I show the first the digital print.  They were impressed, it came from a digital camera and didn't look "digital" what ever that means.  Then I pulled out the K print, silence... "wow."  I asked what the difference was, they couldn't articulate what that was.  I studied the two as carefully as possible, I think I can explain it.  In the smallest branches and twigs, the digital broke up, couldn't handle the detail.  The Kodachrome handled the detail with ease.
Here's what I think.  Digital cameras are wonderful for making photos without film.  Yet film is good at high resolution down to the size of silver halide crystals.  
Theoretically, 12 megapixels is about where you reach the limit of film.  When you get to 18 megapixels, you are able to deliver medium format quality, that's where it really starts getting interesting.