ID: B0002OZXHO-R3OT3SOUX5W2JM-A1X1IMCWPEHVY1
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-White-M9282LL-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A1X1IMCWPEHVY1
ReviewerName: Anonymous
Date: September 29, 2005
Helpful: 11 of 15
Rating: 1.0
Title: Beware- costs more than you think
Content:
I bought this iPod about a year ago, and the click wheel stopped working all of sudden this month right after the warranty period. I did not drop the iPod or spilled water, but I just left it in the drawer for a while. The click wheel lost its sensitivity and I can only turn the iPod on and play the music w/o ever been able to select a certain album or change volume . Since it was right after the end of warranty, I have to pay about 100 bucks just to ask for the repair of this defective Apple product. However, since it's such a waste if I just use this as a hard drive, I found the solution to this by buying Griffin's Air Click ($40)(Even with this, my iPod cannot provide me with game, schedule, shuffling, sleep timer setup, or changing of albums and  languages). Don't buy Apple iPod Remote & Earphones ($40). I had it for a month last year and the cord connecting to the remote part came off to reveal naked cords. In addition, the cord is too long that it changed into a twisted shape permanently. 
So far, I wasted money on:
iPod case (~$30): iPod scratches a lot- a case is a must
iPod skin- $10
iPod remote & Earphones: weak in structure
Griffin's Air Click ($40)
speaker phone ($18)- it would cost more if you want a nice stereo quality speaker phone
iPod ($269 w/education discount)- Click wheel that broke right after warranty period, battery that lasts only ~ two years and supposedly no AC adapter or external battery will help and has to be sent to Apples (another $100). All iPods have battery issues. It seems as though it often breaks down right after 1 year warranty as well, and I heard from the computer store person today that Apple had some law suits concerning this problem before. 
So, it comes down to whether:
You go with trend and spend a lot of money for a product that lasts only a year or two
or
stick with a cheaper ishuffle or other mp3 players that won't make you pay as much and won't regret like I did.