ID: B000OK0YWK-R3J52XZU6RVTDM-A302KTHBRWA0IG
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Red
ReviewerID: A302KTHBRWA0IG
ReviewerName: wayfarer75
Date: November 21, 2006
Helpful: 8 of 35
Rating: 5.0
Title: Thumbs up!
Content:
My experience so far with the Zune has been positive overall. I will get my only bummer out of the way: the earbuds supplied with the Zune do not fit my ears, but no earbuds of that type do. My ears are just too small.
I know there are a lot of reviews out there dogging Microsoft for this and that, but honestly the only choices MS made that stink are not allowing Plays For Sure songs to run on the Zune, and the crazy points system on the Marketplace. I haven't purchased any tunes from them, so it doesn't apply to me. I also don't plan on purchasing many songs from the Zune Marketplace (if at all), as I like to actually own music with CDs. Thus no loss of starriness in my review. Your mileage may vary.
I should note what kind of consumer I am. This is the first mp3 player that I've owned. I plan to use this at the gym, at work, and at home on the speakers. I was never looking into iPods heavily, mostly because I really wanted an FM tuner built into my player. I have no personal issues with Apple, in fact I'm no Microsoft junkie either. I also wanted something that could hold my CD collection. The Creative Zen Vision:M and the Zune were the two front-runners; about the same price for most of the same features. I chose the Zune for the ruggedness of its case--the Zen was scratched to h@ll at Best Buy--and the interface. I wasn't a fan of the vertical touch pad (just to add: I also am not fond of the click wheel of the iPod; I tended to end up stopping past my chosen point). The Zune just seemed to make sense as I went through the menus. I also chose the Zune partly for its looks; the Zen looked like a boring variation of the iPod, and the Zune's screen looked better than the Zen's.
It's been very hard finding comparisons between the Creative Vision:M and the Zune, as most compare both to the iPod but not to each other. For those unable to decide, though, it may all come down to the players' sizes, the potential of the Zune's WiFi (kinda nerfed now, but the future is promising) and minor cosmetic or functional preferences, depending on the person. I really wanted to like the Zen more, because I don't think Bill Gates needs more of my money, but the Zune really won me over on the intangibles.
Software: some are reporting problems. I loaded it up with no crashing and no confusion. Rips my CDs just fine (needed to load album art a couple of times, but that's all). I have had zero problems and can figure out how to do things with it quite easily. I'm not a computer whiz either, just so you know.
Overall, I'm thrilled with my Zune, the sound it produces is super, the screen looks great for video (if that's what you like, I won't be using that much), and I'm looking forward to the growth of Zunedom.
Before you buy, you might want to check out the software for yourself and see how the Marketplace and interface works. Just go to the zune site and click on the download software links.
Happy shopping!