ID: B0000SWABO-R12KCCKMLXMQEW-AC77UTMD24XRR
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL6984A-Harmony-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: AC77UTMD24XRR
ReviewerName: Seatown
Date: February 21, 2006
Helpful: 26 of 26
Rating: 3.0
Title: Disappointed 'cuz it's only OK
Content:
Bought this vacuum some months ago & have been underwhelmed. First:  carton arrived with water damage, which I know is not mfr's fault.  Second:  carton appeared repacked, also a fault of unknown origin.  But there was little accompanying literature inside, unlike the blizzard of paper you usually see with small appliances.  One skimpy 6- or 8-page flyer gave minimal assembly instructions so I wasn't even sure how to put it together.  No instructions on how to use attachments--had to find out by trial & error how to telescope the wand, disconnect attachments, etc.  Yet I believe all the literature the mfr supplies did make it to my home.  And the website offers nothing.
It's quiet as promised, & that's nice.  The flexibility for getting around & under furniture is good.  Full power has plenty of suction, but it's poor at picking up dog hair.  After I vacuum our few area rugs, I have to vacuum all the dog hair off the top & bottom of the attachment itself.  Different power settings are good, as is the ease of switching from hard surface to carpet.  The dusting/furniture attachment is weird--if I've figured it out correctly, it's reversible, that is, double-ended.  The cord retractor retracts whether you want it to or not.  I wish the cord would stay extracted until I hit the "retract" button.  Speaking of buttons--it's too hard to tell the cord button from the power button.  Had to paint a black dot on the power button so I could easily tell which was which. The capacity is amazingly small--didn't realize a vacuum could be made with such a small capacity!  There's supposed to be a light to tell you when bag needs changing, but I can't tell when it's "on." The small size of the vacuum makes it easy to use.
Bought this to replace a 15-yr-old Eureka "Mighty Mite" which today costs 1/3 or less the price of this Electrolux.  Unfortunately it seems the Eureka might be the better deal.  I was expecting an appliance like the one my grandmother swore by.  Instead I got something I sometimes feel like swearing at.