ID: B0002UB2P0-R3PPXP32J0GJYY-A1AVFST0L61C68
Category: MP3Players
Product: Rio-Carbon-GB-MP3-Player
ReviewerID: A1AVFST0L61C68
ReviewerName: Arien
Date: June 18, 2005
Helpful: 12 of 14
Rating: 1.0
Title: Oh, where to start....
Content:
I received the Rio Carbon as a Christmas gift from my parents. From the moment after I had spent thirty minutes maneuvering my way through the insane, theft-proof plastic bubble to retrieve my Carbon, I loved it. The Carbon is really a very beautiful gadget. Though, as I would come to learn six months later, you forget beauty very quickly when your mp3 player passes away to the next realm (mp3-player heaven...? DO mp3 players go to heaven...?).
Don't get me wrong, for the six months that my Carbon worked, it really did do me proud. Besides the fact that none of my headphones were compatible with it (apparently, if headphones have a metal ring at the base, they produce this ear-splitting static and make it impossible to listen to music). And the fact that the battery life didn't exceed more than an estimated 10 hours (even when I wasn't blasting it - which leads me to mention that the volume really doesn't go that high, even when you turn up every setting in the custom equalizer). And the fact that all you had to do was LOOK AT IT and it would scratch. And the power adapter/charger? Yeah, it exploded in about four months. Yet even with the previous complaints, I still enjoyed the look, the sound quality, and the overall performance of the Carbon.
Six months later: I placed my Carbon in a cushioned area of my purse, which doesn't contain any sharp, pointy, or otherwise harmless objects. When I went to retrieve it again, the jog wheel was broken! How that happened is beyond me. In any event, my dad decided to call the customer service. They wanted $140 to fix it. Do yourself a favor and go to eBay. You can get a BRAND NEW Carbon on there for $140. But you know what? I wouldn't, because I refuse to spend that kind of money on something that's going to break six months later. In any event, Dad took it apart and glued the wheel back on (WARNING: DON'T TAKE IT APART UNLESS YOU KNOW WHAT YOU'RE DOING, OR IT WILL BREAK). After not only gluing the wheel back on, but piecing the entire thing back together, I used it for two weeks before the wheel came off again, and my poor Carbon completely died.
I did not, IN ANY WAY, abuse this product the way I have seen other people abuse theirs. Seriously, I dropped it maybe TWICE in the entire time I used it. The only thing I'm guilty of is blasting my music, something characteristic of my age group and something that shouldn't cause the mp3 player to completely meltdown. 
So I give this product one star. What's the use of slapping some shiny gold paint on a rock? Underneath the pretty exterior, it's still only a rock, and I don't think I'll give the Carbon even that much credit. Please, PLEEAAASE, DON'T BUY THIS!!! Think of it this way: I went through the pain of it so YOU wouldn't have to go through it. Redirect your search to the Creative Zen Touch, it looks like a much better product.