ID: B000HJ4YMY-R35EFDD343D3J3-A5KMMY627T3W
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-55mm-Zoom-Nikkor
ReviewerID: A5KMMY627T3W
ReviewerName: Kate Stokes
Date: June 6, 2007
Helpful: 20 of 20
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great camera. Decent Kit Lens.
Content:
This was an upgrade for me from an 8.0MP Digital Rebel XT--which was my first DSLR camera--so I will compare my experiences with the two.
Digital Rebel XT 8.0MP:
Pros: price, weight, ease of use. 
Cons: very noisy focusing and shooting. feels cheaply put together and mass produced (the latter is certainly true); feels and looks like an entry level DSLR camera (which, granted, is what it is). tends to overexpose pictures outdoors, and underexpose pictures indoors. ease of use comes at the sacrifice of desirable controls that just aren't there.
D80 10.2MP:
Pros: Solid look and feel. The 11-area autofocus system makes a HUGE difference, at least to me, and enables much better control and less wasted time trying to focus how I want to than the Rebel XT. Looks and feels serious and solid, like it means business. far more features and controls than the Rebel XT (which does make it harder to use, however) much quieter focusing and shooting. Excellent low light exposure, far better than the XT (using their respective kit lenses). Colors seem more rich and vibrant than the XT, and bright colors seem to "pop" more. This kit lens is of FAR better quality than the horrible kit lens that came with the Rebel XT. This kit lens does not live up to the usual kit lens reputation. It far exceeds it.
Cons: price (still near impossible to find one of these for a steal), weight (it feels solid and well constructed, but you pay for that with the weight. my hand never got tired with the Rebel XT, it gets tired with this. I don't mind it though because I know it is more solidly built), seems to underexpose outdoors, but the detail and colors seem richer. (I'm sure once I get more familiar with the controls I will be able to tweak this), uses SD cards instead of CF. While the kit lens is far better than the Rebel XT kit lens, it does show more of a pincushion effect than the kit lens of the Rebel XT.
Now, I realize that to be fair the D80 should be compared side by side to the Rebel XTi, not the Rebel XT, but again I don't have the experience to do that. I can only speak from my own personal experience based on what I have owned and used.
Bottom line, to me this seems like a great midway point between entry-level DSLR and true professional DSLR. It seems to straddle the two ends of that spectrum very nicely in terms of picture quality, price, controls, and features. I can tell that this camera is going to make me a better photographer. 
I am still very happy that I started out with the Rebel XT, however, and if a friend of mine asked me for advice on buying their first DSLR I would probably recommend the Digital Rebel XT because it is so easy to use. I mean the Rebel is basically a glorified point and shoot camera with a mechanical shutter, ability to change lenses, and much better picture quality. Please pardon my slight hyperbole there, but hopefully you get the point. The Rebel XT takes zero know-how to use. For a beginner this is perfect if you ask me. Someone who knows how to use a point and shoot will quickly be able to master the Rebel XT.
The D80 takes much more know-how to use but so far as I can tell that is a good thing if you are serious about photography. It is going to push me to be a better and more knowledgeable photographer, and it enables me to fine tune my pictures for better results.
In one sentence:
Digital Rebel XT: instant gratification.
Nikon D80: better gratification, but not instant.