ID: B0006HUYTE-R3UR0HJU9XTTFB-AB6K9446JHFE
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-Sanitaire-SC3683A-Commercial-Canister
ReviewerID: AB6K9446JHFE
ReviewerName: W. Van Arsdel
Date: January 26, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: works well for intended use
Content:
Without wasting any time, this unit really does what it's supposed to, and at the price I paid through Amazon and Go Vacuum it looks to provide the best value proposition among affordable canister vacs. The 10 amp motor, shoulder strap, etc., in this semi-pro-sumer (commercial) model will be worthwhile features for most users. This li'l guy is compact, light and strong; the carry strap is handier than one might imagine. 
As far as details of performance, other reviews might be more of a resource but one must nitpick to complain. Something which does come to mind is that there is a small valve at the top of the extention tube which twists to open and release pressure (maybe for better dealing with a sock jammed at the end). It's a bit too easy to open it unknowingly, and you might not realize it for a bit (altho' it is noisier when open). However, that's partly because the suction on this vac is good enough that even with the 'safety valve' open upstream it still vacuums well enough not to make it immediately obvious to the user. A bit of experience--checking and listening--makes this a minor inconvenience, but a recommended design improvement would be to make this twist ring a different color than black so the opening would be visible (or maybe include adhesive yellow or red grip tape). Also, a more defined 'click' or detent would hold it in place unless the user definitively twisted it open. Oh, also it was not completely clear how the cardboard collar on the bag was to be held in place inside the unit (no obvious clips, and the picture with instructions in the manual weren't clarifying to me). But, that's it after using it a few times. Those are NOT dealbreakers, or even close.
Soon after receiving this, I noticed that a membership warehouse nearby just began carrying a competitior's canister model featuring a power-driven nozzle w/ headlight--which had not been the case right when I ordered this (as I had looked into canisters locally prior to my Amazon order). But after again checking the Amazon reviews both on this model and the seemingly-better (and handsomer) one which wasn't *that* much more expensive--and now available locally--I was reassured this was still the much better value even without the ability to merely walk in if an exchange was in order. Return or exchange seems unlikely with this product. A tool that 'just works' is usually more valuable than one with additional features, which sometimes just create more variability in reliability and performance--which seemed evident in the respective reviews.
Without a power nozzle, however, this unit naturally would have limited usefulness on thicker carpets. For those with hard floors or low carpets and a variety of surfaces/situations to deal with, it will fit the bill. For residential users using a traditional upright with powered "beaters" to vacuum their carpets, this is a great second vac for everything else (except liquids; leave that for shop-vacs). The optional HEPA filter makes it versitile based on on-site requirements; bag options include better-filtering upgrades too.
This Electrolux Eureka Sanitaire (Red canister model) = simple, practical, affordable.
Honestly, if possible I maybe would have awarded 4.5 stars since this commercial-labeled Sanitaire is not  truly perfect. However, when graded 'on the curve' for value at my purchase price, this affordable canister vacuum seems to sit at the top of the class.