ID: B000VDQ38E-R10PWXYMNQXMXO-A6RFU6XI03NX3
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A6RFU6XI03NX3
ReviewerName: Theresa Blackwell
Date: January 7, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best $140 thie cat-lover has spent in YEARS!
Content:
I am a 38-year-old, single chic.  My 900-square-ft apartment is 20 years old and there is carpet everywhere except the main entrance and the bathroom.
When I moved in, I brought with me an 8-year-old reverse calico named Midnight. (She's predominately black).  She is half feral stray.    Midi has always hated vaccuum cleaners.  Always.    This new Bissell Pet Hair Eraser is no different.  She and I usually get along--but not this time.  I have mild asthma-which is currently controlled.  The attachments on this new machine have allowed me to pull loose Midi-Fuzz from hard-to-reach places. Now, I won't sneeze as much, and neither of us will have as many sinus issues.  YAY!  Problem solved.
This is THE BEST investment for my home and health that I have made in years.  My last vaccuum was a Dirt Devil Vision Lite (which my Grandpa gave me as a house-warming gift for another place entirely).  The Dirt Devil is now permanently retired.
Thought it did its job, the parts for that machine were hard to find.
I have added filters and belts for the new Bissell enroute as I type.
Though hefty at 26lbs, the 12-amp onboard powerplant REALLY gives this machine heft in the areas it needs a little muscle.  I have carpet of all textures and weaves. Berber, Plush, Pile...whatever was available at the time this place was built.  The new Bissell handled every single  loop and stitch with ease.   AND EVEN pulled stray fuzz from one of my ceiling fans! 
If you have a cat; this is a MUST HAVE essential.  If the resident feline protests, it's due to the high-pitched whine the machine gives off as it's working.  I found Midnight hidden halfway between my microwave and my bread bin, but she's half-stray turned tame... and so---I expected this.  Over time, I hope she's more used to this lovely new addition to the house.   I purchased it as an early birthday gift for myself.   I'm on fixed income, but this was a must-have.   The Dirt-Devil lost its pulling power about six months ago.
Amazon shipped the new vac in record time.  It's easy to figure out what attachments go where; my only hangup was the initial assembly of the handle and attachment storage rack.  Other than that?  This is a great thing to have around the house.