ID: B00008VE6L-R4BB050LE38M9-ANGZX2BBOQUSD
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-istD-6-1MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: ANGZX2BBOQUSD
ReviewerName: Coyner Thomas Lee "Tom Coyner"
Date: May 6, 2004
Helpful: 23 of 23
Rating: 4.0
Title: A great camera with a one serious flaw
Content:
Over the years I have used a variety of systems ranging from Pentax to Nikormat to Canon to Olympus and eventually back to Pentax.  Why back to Pentax?  Size and ergonomics.  All of the major brands are good and some offer truly best in class - at a price - in optics such as Nikon and Canon.However, for overall good value Pentax holds its own.  While I would be happy to use equipment from any of the major brands, I am quite satisfied with Pentax - but I had to wait until last autumn to get my hands on a decent Pentax digital camera.  The *istD, weird name and all, is such a camera.  Overall I'm a happy camper and I have been taking some of the best photographs in my 30 years experience with this camera.Other reviews here will tell you the camera's virtues and those features are real and not over stated.  This is a professional class camera - though most professionals use Nikons and Canons when it comes to digital work for a number of reasons - usually due to optics and employers' standards.  The optics from Pentax are still well respected and 99% of the folks reading this will be more than satisfied.While battery life with this camera is very, very good, I would recommend considering getting the optional additional battery attachment that screws into the bottom of the camera.  It looks like an old fashion motor drive but it provides excellent ergonomics when shooting side-wise (portrait) complete with the thumb and fore finger controls replicated for ease of use.  It adds peace of mind by providing redundant power plus if you often shoot protrait framing, you can really hold this camera much better than most other cameras.So what is the single, significant flaw of this camera?  It is undoubtedly the flash card interface that is accessed via a door that doesn't swing completely open, tempting the user to push the card in a slightly wrong angle.  Of course there are internal guides within the flash card holder assembly but even with care, over time, it is possible to break one of the tiny pins of the camera's interface to the flash card.  I know. I have done it.  The cost and speed of repair was minor, but suddenly one day out in the field I had a camera that was suddenly inoperable.So that is why I give this other wise great camera only 4 stars.  If you have a good investment in 35 mm Pentax gear, you really have no choice but this camera.  But the good news, particularly if you are shooting in RAW, the output is incredible.  Now that PhotoshopCS has upgraded its RAW import program via a free download from Adobe, the results from this camera can be absolutely stellar.  But user beware when swapping out those flash cards!