ID: B00061LSAY-R1WR63AM0Q9PFD-A1JDY842ES5K06
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-ist-DS-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A1JDY842ES5K06
ReviewerName: Philip A. Cole "Phil"
Date: March 14, 2006
Helpful: 11 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: Retro style.
Content:
The overal build, body operation and lense quality is superb. Unless you have some very specific needs from a dSLR when comparing features, this camera can win your heart easily.
It is backward compatible with virtually every lense Pentax and third party companies have made for Pentax cameras. The viewfinder is comparable to that of the Canon 20D, and the DS really supports manual focusing unlike most other digital SLR's. The DL follows closely. The focusing screen can be swapped easily with an available 3 or 4 options to chose from, including one by a third party named Katz Eye Optics. I have heard good results with that split center microprism focusing screen as it allows you to manually focus better like the good old SLR days.
The autofocus motor is a little slower than the competition, but it is highly accurate and offers eleven focus points to chose from. For most general purposes it is fast enough. The thing about Pentax is that it is not the best with one particular feature (except lense quality) but it can do everything very well. This makes it overal VERY good.
The optical quality of Pentax lenses is as good if not better than the competition and at a lower price, perhaps from the lower demand from consumers. Nonetheless, even the kit lense blows away the competition.
Noise level is not a factor, and in my opinion is controlled better than Canons and Nikons giving more of a resemblance to real film grain. Although, it is still much more usable at ISO 3200 than film cameras are.
If you love to take pictures then get into Pentax. If you would rather have the most advanced technology and have the camera take the pictures for you, then look elsewhere but consider that Pentax will be soon coming out with possibly image stabilization integrated in a new 10 megapixel pro spec body, and an 18 megapixel medium format sensor camera at the end of 2006.
The only downside at this point is that desirable Pentax lenses can be difficult to find, but they are coming out with some new models soon also.