ID: B000TQEDE4-R1Y0F7OUI6E3EO-A3RDSSY1STPI10
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1150BK-Programmable-Thermal-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3RDSSY1STPI10
ReviewerName: Mark Twain
Date: October 25, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 2.0
Title: Started well, but....
Content:
So we've had this coffee-maker for 2 months now, and usually make at least one pot a day. At first I thought it was a fine coffee-maker, but a few problems have been cropping up.
The controls are easy to use, and I like the relative simplicity of the design. It is easy to figure out what buttons you need to push for programming, setting the clock, or just getting a cup of coffee. It seems to be made well, I don't have any faults with the construction or the materials. 
My two big problems are with 1) the design of the carafe, and 2) the quality of the actual coffee. Several people have mentioned that the carafe pours oddly, and this (for me) is especially noticeable when trying to pour water into the coffee maker. The big problem is that it is difficult to *empty* the carafe in a controlled manner, as you have to almost completely up-end it and so you are not able to do this while pouring into a small opening. Additionally, the carafe is designed with a very small top. I have relatively narrow hands for a man and I can't get in there with a sponge to clean it out. Consequently, you can only rinse the carafe, which means the possibility of old coffee residue (oils or acids) clinging to the side of carafe.
This probably contributes to the second problem I have experienced. At first, the quality of the coffee was fine. However over the past 2 weeks, the coffee has been tasting more and more bitter. I have tried experimenting with the amount of coffee I put in (relative to the amount of water), have used fresh beans (we have always used filtered water), and have also experimented with the size of the pot, and have done my best to clean the entire coffee maker (including the carafe). However, the coffee is still bitter - practically undrinkable for my taste. 
I don't know if this has to do with the brew cycle, or the possibility of old oils somewhere in the machine. But either way, it looks like I am going to have to purchase a new machine in the next month or so even though there is nothing *technically* wrong with this one (after all, it still creates something that looks and smells like coffee - even though it tastes like watered down battery acid). I really think that the design of the carafe (and the difficulty in cleaning both the carafe and the spout) are major contributors to this problem.