ID: B00006JK37-R18L8WL31NOMNG-A2ATWKOFJXRRR1
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D100-6MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A2ATWKOFJXRRR1
ReviewerName: B. Merritt "filmreviewstew.com"
Date: May 22, 2005
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Go Digital and Never Look Back
Content:
My girlfriend purchased this camera for me for my birthday about 2 years ago, and I fell in love with it immediately. I'd already owned a Nikon 8008 film camera and was thinking of going digital anyway. But I'd recently spent a lot of money on new camera lenses for my SLR and didn't want to just lose out on the funds I'd expended. Amazingly, the Nikon D100 adapts my lenses to its frame and I can still use them! Awesome! 
I would argue, though, that this camera is compact. It isn't. It's just as large as my 8008, but I don't mind that. I like the feel of a bulky camera in my hands. It feels firm and I have something substantial to hang onto. I've see these tiny little digitals that have buttons the size of pinheads on them and they drive me crazy! I'm a big guy (6'3, 250 pounds), so I need something bigger. Thankfully the D100 was (is) the answer. 
I also enjoy the large view screen on the back of the camera, giving me a peek at the image I just took. 
There is some controversy still surrounding digital imaging and printing. One group of photographers say that printing on a home printer is too expensive (ink and paper costs), while another group says that film is too expensive because you can't delete what you shoot, can't pick and choose which images to have developed; you've gotta pay for them all. I'm in the latter group. Although photo paper and ink cartridges are expensive, being able to delete images and select only the very best for printing far surpasses the film option in both convenience and cost. 
This is a fantastic camera. But a friend of mine just purchased the D70 model (the latest and greatest Nikon Digital Camera), and boy does that one look nice, too! Hmm. What to do?