ID: B000G2E66G-R1ZN045M8BRGV1-A3QWNQ2WA7QZYJ
Category: AirConditioners
Product: Sharp-CV-P10LC-Portable-Air-Conditioner
ReviewerID: A3QWNQ2WA7QZYJ
ReviewerName: kireviewer
Date: August 16, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 2.0
Title: For a small room only.
Content:
The box says that this is recommended for rooms 360 to 410 square feet.
My room is less than 380 square feet and has low ceilings. This unit did not cool down my room at all.
It was only 83 degrees outside, I ran the unit for 3 hours and the inside did not get any cooler than 81 degrees.  I let the unit run as the outside temperature cooled to 79 degrees and inside remained at 81 degrees.
If you have a small room, this is probably one of the best portable air conditions you can buy.
The only other thing I really don't like about this unit is that all of the control is with the remote control.  If the remote control is lost or breaks, all you can do is turn on the unit and it goes into default mode.  If the unit remains plugged in, it goes to the last setting you used.  If the unit gets unplugged, it goes to cool mode with the temperature set at 69 degrees.  You cannot change that without the remote control.  There is a place to hang the remote control on the backside of the unit.
The unit is fairly light and compact for a portable air conditioner.  There are a few that are smaller and a few that are lighter.
It is the quietest one I have heard.  However, the 36 dB that they claim is when the fan is on low.  When on "Maga cool", the unit is pretty loud.  Not so loud that you have to jack up the sound on your TV, but loud enough that it could bother you if you were a light sleeper.  
The installation kit is well made and sturdy.  It can go into windows up to 48" wide (double hung) or tall (slider).  Some other units only have kits for up to 38".  Unless you have something unique about your window, you can install this in about 30 minutes.   This unit won't work on one of my windows because the hose hits a shutter frame.  Or course, you can always construct your own adapter to make it work on just about any type of window.  But, if you go through all that effort, you may just want to get a window model.
I have read reviews where some people claim that this unit had no trouble cooling a 400 square foot room in 100 degree weather.  There a lot of factors about a room that will determine how effect the air conditiner will be, such as is there a ceiling above the room, or another floor, how much sun is there on the room, how high are the ceilings, etc.  But, the air that comes out of the unit is cool, but not extremely cold.  I don't see how it can cool a room that large.
One problem with all of the portable airconiditioners is that they have a hose to exhaust the hot air out a window.  These hoses are never insulated, so they radiate some of the heat back into the room.  The longer the hose, the more inefficient your cooling will be.  And, the room gets hot on the backside of the unit, because of this.
For a room above 360 square feet, you probably need to get a unit that is at least 12,000 BTU, unless conditions are perfect in your room.