ID: B000W0XTJ2-R2D38S59BS11CM-A3HN7HO2LZ8C81
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-TX1320US-Entertainment-Notebook-Processor
ReviewerID: A3HN7HO2LZ8C81
ReviewerName: Flora Gal Reed
Date: October 15, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: HP Tablet Laptop TX1320 4GB RAM Vista Ultimate
Content:
PROS: I've owned this tablet laptop now for over a year and warranty has expired. I love the swivel tablet especially for reading Adobe Digital editions or PDFs. There's no need to buy a special digital reader if you have this tablet laptop, or a version similar to it. I upgraded to Vista Ultimate and the tablet features function much better than what I've heard from other people. I love it for the most part. Used the tablet feature while in college for drawing simple pictures with the stylus pen. Needs a better stylus cord for not losing the pen. I use the remote control all the time when watching movies on my external monitor. I also bought the docking station which is really snazzy looking and functions perfect. Good Altec Lansing speakers on both the laptop and the docking station. DVD movies are good. Touchpad is really the nicest I've used, and I had a Dell Inspiron (lasted 10 years), and an old Thinkpad. It runs AutoCAD LT, and many other software products with no problems. I've done all the MS updates and only had a couple of issues. It is easy to carry around; has been to many cafes in a special laptop bag. 
CONS: The fngerprint reader is in the worst place and I had to turn it off because it kept getting activated everytime I went to use the tablet.
The laptop overheats; fan is on most of the time and loud. I'm afraid that now that my warranty is over it might die. 
The battery sticks out the back, which can be useful for gripping, and doesn't last for more than 2 hours; not enough time to watch a DVD in bed, plus too hot.
The docking station's power button is in the worst place, once again for typing, I've rested my forearm on it one too many times and turned it off by accident. Need to use an external keyboard, but don't have that setup yet.
It says you can put in 4GB of RAM, but I've never seen the Windows Task manager go above 2GB ram when I've been using many programs. Doesn't run any faster than when I had 2GB ram, so don't waste your money upgrading. I tried calling HP technical support to get help with this and their technical support sucks. They won't help me without charging me a fee of $50 and no guarrentee they will even solve the issue, plus technical support was in another country.