ID: B00009J5VX-RLFZG4GHRN30D-
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-White-M8976LL-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: 
ReviewerName: 
Date: December 29, 2003
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Installed without a hitch on Windows XP
Content:
Being a Windows user, it was with some trepidation that I asked for the iPod for Xmas.  I read a number of rather negative comments regarding the iPod and Windows (strange bed partners, eh?)  But, I really liked the size of the unit and its capacity, so I went ahead and requested it from Santa (a pretty sure thing, &quot;Santa&quot; being my wife and all.)Maybe I was born under a lucky star or something, but I had my 7.6 gigs of music loaded from my Windows XP laptop to my iPod in less than 2 hours.  About the only real issue I had was getting MusicMatch to &quot;see&quot; the iPod.  Although I like MusicMatch, I'm not married to it so I decided to try iTunes for Windows before attempting to figure out why MusicMatch wasn't working.  The product installed quickly, automatically found my music, and hooked up with the iPod with no problems.  I did have to recreate my Playlists so I suppose someone with a lot of them might try harder to stick with MusicMatch.My laptop does have a firewire port so I did not have to buy any extra cables.  iPod came with a firewire cable (6 pin) and a converter plug for 4 pin firewire (which is what I have).  Perhaps that's why MusicMatch couldn't see the iPod...it was hanging off the firewire port.Other reviews mentioned the iPod battery power draining quickly when downloading music from the PC.  Ditto for me.  You'll want a fully charged iPod before starting your download.I don't care much for the headphones provided with the iPod.  The music comes through clear enough but I find them to be physically awkward to use.  The headhphone jack is standard, so I've continued to use my &quot;old&quot; headphones.All in all I'd have to give the iPod the full 5 stars.  It was easy to install, easy to load up with music, and I find the quality of the sound to be first rate.  The controls, although rather touchy, are intuitive and easily mastered.  They say the best things come in small packages; in this case I couldn't agree more!