ID: B000RGZTJE-R6NQWF77UZ7C5-A2HC4MDSARWSFK
Category: AirConditioners
Product: NewAir-AF-315-Portable-Selectable-Delivery
ReviewerID: A2HC4MDSARWSFK
ReviewerName: Grey Reaser
Date: May 9, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 1.0
Title: Think Twice & Do Your Homework
Content:
I ordered this product in March, and did not really begin to use it until a month later.  I followed the instructions as best I could as the manual is not that well written.  In a small room, the product was not much help on this hot day.  I had received a survey from the company a week or so after ordering, but had to wait to fill it in because I did not use the product yet.  When I filled the survey in, I expressed my concerns, asked customer service to contact me, gave phone number & email address, and received no response.  They sent another survey at the six-week mark, and I received a phone reponses, but there was not follow up when I called the rep back and left two phone numbers. It has now been over three days.  I did receive an email about return policies, in lieu of a phone call, I guess, but I no longer have the bulky packaging and it is a requirement for returns to ship or bring (this is a local company) it back with the shipping.  So, now I have basically a useless product, I do not know if it is working correctly, and I am frankly tired of this whole situation.  I even live within easy driving distance of this company. 
I think these products have value, but, looking at these reviews with varying results, I do wonder.  I do not think this is the right product for the particular living space I have.  I am moving soon, and I will try this out in a different space.  If it is still basically ineffective, I will get rid of it, and try a more powerful model, but I will not order from this company again.  My mistake for not keeping the packaging.  They had two opportunities to address my concerns, and dropped the ball both times.  Sending an impersonal return policy email is hardly a solution.  I still do not know if it is working correctly, because I have never owned a product like this before.