ID: B00005IBX8-R2NAK6A3TWMPEU-ADBQUOL6T0GYC
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC1000BK-12-Cup-Coffeemaker-Black
ReviewerID: ADBQUOL6T0GYC
ReviewerName: Hood Canal Folk
Date: December 16, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Awesome Brewer
Content:
First of all it just blows me away at the number of negative reviews on this product. It is by far the best coffee brewer I have ever owned. Yes it has some design short comings but what do you want for 60 bucks? For those of you who paid substantially more and are writing negative reviews it tells me something about your intelligence and your decision making process. I have had this brewer for more than a year now and it works flawlessly. If it died tomorrow I would feel I got every penny's worth out of it and start looking to a duplicate to replace it. My criterion for a brewer when this was purchased was first it had to have a cone filter and second it had to be at least a 12 cup carafe. I have had several flat bottom filter brewers and they are inefficient in that they require more ground coffee to make the same amount of brewed coffee and they are inconsistent in strength. Don't be swayed by the negative reviewers that complain about the trivial issues like, I have to pull it out from under the cabinet to fill it with water. The clock isn't lighted. It is hard to fill with water (not if you are sober). I don't know what the issue is with stray coffee grounds some reviewers complain about. I over fill this brewer so that when done brewing the carafe is almost overflowing and have never had coffee grounds go anywhere but in the filter cone. I use a paper filter which doesn't allow fine grounds to filter into the brewed coffee and may be a source of some of the complaints. I must say the negative reviews of this product became a source of entertainment as I was reading through them. I am amazed some of these people can even make coffee much less write a review. I wouldn't have wasted my time writing this review if I didn't feel strongly about this product. Happy brewing!