ID: B000MMK23Q-R2GGV7YVT4GDH4-A3K9ZB2PCF2HG4
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: EdenPURE-Model-Quartz-Infrared-Heater
ReviewerID: A3K9ZB2PCF2HG4
ReviewerName: S. Johnson "musicman"
Date: December 22, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Love this heater!
Content:
First, to anyone purchasing this heater or any other type realize that it is meant to be a supplemental heat source, not a primary source. I've had my Eden Pure for one week and although that is not very long, I can say that I am going to keep mine. I know the cost is high, but I like the heat and the living room, kitchen, and hallway stay nice and warm from the floor on up. Also, one thing to remember is that this heater is meant to stay on and I think that is the key. At first, I was disappointed in its heat output, but I read more on this heater and found that I needed to experiment by adjusting it and varying the temperature. At night, I keep the heater at half and during the day also. When I get home, I turn it up full until I go to bed. You have to keep it on to sustain the heat throughout. I have a single level brick ranch home and it is very nice and warm except for the back bedrooms which I use the furnace to heat. I do think that the price is a bit high, but I like the technology and it is a very safe heater; no pain to touch the front grill and it runs very quiet. Also, the air in my house is NOT dry but very cozy and comfortable. The oil heater that I bought last year made me feel strange in my head whenever I would use it. It would make my head feel woozy and I felt sick at times and I didn't like the heat output at all so I gave it to the Salvation Army. The oil heater also took forever to heat my den and the flooring and wall would get extremely hot, which I thought was very unsafe and I never used it while I was at work. I feel completely safe using my Eden Pure while at work. MLike I said, it feels natural and healthy and because Michigan winters get very cold only for a few months out of the year, my electric bill increase won't be all that bad.