ID: B000CD34US-RYBFANMTEX7HS-A247MMGD3Z2AEM
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: American-Harvest-Pellet-Stove-Exhaust
ReviewerID: A247MMGD3Z2AEM
ReviewerName: SJFF
Date: January 12, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 3.0
Title: OK stove, terrible customer service.
Content:
I have owned two pellet stoves before ordering this one, a Harmon Accentra and an old Whitfield.  The Whitfield worked about as well as the Harmon and I came to realize they all operate on the same principal so I was not concerned about ordering the 6039.  
When I went to install the stove I ran into a problem. I could not attach the 'T' fitting to the stove exhaust outlet.  The outlet pipe had been jammed so tightly against the stove sheet metal that there was no gap for the 'T' to fit.  I called the company at about 4:25 PM and was on hold for 25 minutes.  The person I spoke to was rude and unhelpful but, best of all, she hung up on me at 5:00!  I decided to just repair it and worry about the warrenty later.
   As for the operation of the stove, I have used pellets only and it does pretty well.  The fan is no louder than the other stoves I've owned.  It does have to be cleaned weekly but all pellet stoves should be cleaned that often.  In fact, some of the older stoves had to be cleaned daily.  After 2 months I checked the 'T' fitting and it was virtually clean so I'm assuming the burn is efficient.
  This stove does not have an auto ignitor which I was not sure would be a problem.  My method is to use a propane (MAP gas) torch to lite the pellets, it works great and is fast and clean.
  I have had a problem when it runs out of pellets. The stove will show ERR2 and normally you just add more and restart.  Lately however it will just keep shutting down.  I removed the side panel and jumped out the low temp switch to keep it running and after a few hours it was back to normal.
  I would only recommend this stove based on it's price and only if you are confident you can repair it yourself.  Customer service is worse than useless.  As far as parts, it looks like they used off the shelf motors you could interchange with ones from Grainger to save some money.