ID: B00066EK36-R3OORR35XI8WJ9-AE571AZCM2Z1O
Category: MP3Players
Product: SanDisk-256-MP3-Player-Red
ReviewerID: AE571AZCM2Z1O
ReviewerName: Tiffany Nasca
Date: September 22, 2005
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 4.0
Title: Directions that don't Direct, Instructions that don't instruct, but a player that plays!
Content:
I have had this player for less than 24 hours and for the first 3 of those hours I was pulling my hair hair out. 
The instructions that come with the player, both in the manual supplied with the player and the downloadable PDF file are sorely lacking. I had never used an MP3 player before so I wasn't schooled on the in's and out's, and what seemed simple wasn't. Following the directions I copied my music to the player, that was simple enough, took hardly any time at all. Then I did a test run of the player and lo and behold, most of my music wouldn't play. I went to Sandisk's website and found little help, until I compared the specs of the music that would and wouldn't play. Turns out most of my music is license protected. Now the FAQ's on Sandisk.com hit on this topic in a round about way, breifly mentioning that license protected music purchased from Walmart.com won't play on the player unless some steps are taken. 
To make a long story short once I realized I could just 'synch' the files using Windows Media Player, the night was looking up. After deleteing my music from the player  (for the 4th time of the night) and reloading using the 'synch' feature in Windows Media Player- which apparently will carry over the license protection to the MP3 player allowing you to play your music.  Once I had this done, the music played wonderfully. 
I don't know if loading and using the jukebox player that comes with the MP3 player would have made my life easier (None of the instructions mention this alternative player other than to say you don't have to use it, the instructions/directions only tell you how to copy files directly from your music file to the player).
I am very happy with the player its self, it is tiny, and not at all cumbersome, although the joystick control took a while to get used to. The volume on the player is fantastic for something so small, I ordered a 'better' pair of earbuds, but the ones that come with the player work fantastically. 
All in all the product itself is, for my money and lack of MP3 player experience, wonderful. But the directions/instruction/FAQ's need a serious re-do. 
If you've never had an MP3 player before, I would reccomend the player, it is a great bargain for the price and sound quality, and once you do some homework, its really easy to use. 
One more thing, I also loved the "rotate feature" of the player which allows you to flip the direction of the screen. As someone who is left handed, this was a major plus.