ID: B000IXD7YA-R1P4ZVX86L2JI0-A1Q8N5EXHBGO2M
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-P105-S6114-Processor-SuperMulti
ReviewerID: A1Q8N5EXHBGO2M
ReviewerName: S. Nelson
Date: February 6, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Very good laptop, poor keyboard design
Content:
I bought this shortly after I went out on my own contract programming.  I liked the bigger screen because it was replacing my desktop.  So far I've been extremely pleased with it, aside from the keyboard.  I use it many hours every day, travel with it regularly, work at home and at various coffee shops, etc.
The screen is excellent - and plenty bright even on battery.  After a year the battery still gets about the same amount of time as it did originally - around two hours under normal use.  I am usually on AC.
The only thing I am unhappy with is the keyboard.  If you have to type a lot and will be depending on the unit's keyboard, I must recommend that you pick a different machine.  I can't understand what they were thinking when they designed this -- it is almost like the keyboard was an afterthought.  The right shift key, the slash, and the period (not to mention the arrow keys) are so small that you may wear out the backspace key before its time.  I can't give you too much information on what else you will run in to - I carry a full size USB keyboard in my bag, which I planned to do anyway as I am not much for laptop keyboards anyway.  This setup works out great for me.  If the keyboard is not an issue for you, I highly recommend this machine.
Some of the other features I don't use as much: the fingerprint reader is a neat gadget and it works well enough once you get used to it, and get the method down, but it was just something to mess with for me.  I don't currently use it.
It has plenty of USB ports, a card reader port, which handles SD (I was delighted to discover when I needed it) and some others.  An ample hard drive (160GB) and 2 Gig of memory (this was must for me; I wanted it to handle the applications I was running smoothly, and that was about the max you could find in an out-of-the-box machine at the time).  The built-in wireless card works great, it has a firewire port, dvd writer/everything drive that works great.  And finally the price seems very good for a machine like this with durability that I trust.
WHY TOSHIBA?
about 6 years ago I did some research which gave me the impression that toshibas, though a bit heavier, had outstanding durability.  My first one was (still is) fantastic.  I am still running it non-stop on my network, but I needed more memory/speed/disk space.  In between my wife bought one which as performed exceptionally as well.  I have not been disappointed in any of my Toshibas.  The keyboards on the other two were fine, by the way.  As far as personal experience, I've seen way too many Dells fail first hand (including one of ours).  As far as other brands, I don't have first hand experience, but few looked as good as Toshibas when I researched them, and none for the price.