ID: B000GTR2F6-R2ME97BTSJ4XE3-A1XE2Q4XV77NA9
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Platinum-Single-Cup-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: A1XE2Q4XV77NA9
ReviewerName: Joe Schmoe reviewer
Date: July 5, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Update 11/09: 4th month - the machine is kaput, but Keurig sent a new one for free
Content:
UPDATE 1/3/10: New machine Keurig sent has had no problems so far.
UPDATE 11/09: at about 4 months, the machine is kaput.  (The good news is that with one phone call, Keurig has sent a brand new machine.) The problems mentioned earlier in this review became commonplace.  The machine, for instance, made a fine cup of coffee a half hour ago.  Next cup... never made it out of the machine.  It is now sitting in "Brewing" status and nothing is happening.  From experience, I know this means I will spend from 15 to 30 minutes trying to get it to brew another cup. That's assuming the machine will not simply decide it's done for good.  Fortunately, the replacement machine from Keurig arrived yesterday.  We'll see what happens and I'll post another update.  I will say that all it took was a single phone call, a few diagnostic steps and Keurig determined that a new machine -- delivered in about 5 days -- was appropriate.  There was no cost to me and I need not send the old machine back, just a small, vital part as proof of ownership.  So I am satisfied with their support.  They were very responsive.  I just hope the machine they sent has had some sort of upgrade.  If the problem occurs with this new machine, I may have to return to my old ways and crank up the Cuisinart 12-cup.  Stay tuned.
UPDATE 9/09: After 3 1/2 months I have had no significant problems with the machine.  I still highly recommend this product.  It is really a pleasure to make a decent cup of coffee so easily.  
To maintain my reviewer integrity, I must tell you that, on rare occasions, it seems to forget what it's doing and brews for the normal length of time, but produces a weird, under-supplied cup (i.e. it doesn't use enough water).  While I'm in the confessional... I also had to "reboot" the machine once by unplugging it when it didn't know how to brew.  These incidents are indeed rare -- by rare, I mean it has happened maybe three times in 3 1/2 months.  I can see no pattern or reason for it.   Although it makes me nervous because of some of the reviews I've read about fatal malfunctions, my confidence is restored by the next well-made cup.
Original review: I read a lot of reviews in order to decide which Keurig machine to get.  (I knew I'd be getting a Keurig because I could see that almost everyone who had one "loved it.")  My biggest concern was serving size flexibility and the apparent noise problems.  The B70, though a bit expensive, seemed to have everything I needed, including Quiet-Brew Technology.
At a party yesterday, everyone who wanted coffee was asked what kind they wanted.  The host had this exact machine and a wide selection of K cups.  Every 2 minutes another guest was served the coffee they chose.  Not the quickest way to serve coffee to multiple guests, but it illustrates the versatility of the Keurig "system."
I am completely satisfied.  The machine makes very little noise and the coffee is better than the pods I was using before.  I am using water from my refrigerator's filtered dispenser and some Green Mountain K-cups.  I leave the machine powered up as recommended and have not changed anything from the default settings yet.  So far, I have to say the coffee is just as good as anything I'd brew in my regular coffee maker.  The K-cups are even easier to handle than the pods.
What more can I say?  I recommend this machine to anyone who has the space for it and the dough to buy it.