ID: B00008ELEA-RM1VU0S69KVPA-A2I7PIEDIVES6F
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Farberware-FCP240-2-4-Cup-Percolator-Stainless
ReviewerID: A2I7PIEDIVES6F
ReviewerName: Charlie Griffin
Date: February 20, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 2.0
Title: Welllll....
Content:
I bought this little pot after I tasted perked coffee at a private, catered brunch.  The caterer had one of those big, cheap old-fashioned percolators.  I poured a cup, took a sip and OMG!  That was the BEST cup of coffee I have ever had!  I asked him if it was the brand of coffee he was using and he said no, that it was just regular coffee but that the percolator made a difference.
Anyway, I bought the Farberware 4-cup since I would be making coffee for myself only most mornings.  I've been  using it for about 9 months.  Well, this morning I plug it up and nothing happens.  I check the connections and they seem to be ok.  I unplug the cord from the pot and replug, nothing.  So then I had to dump out the water and coffee.  After examining the pot, I heard something jingling inside.  I looked at the bottom and noticed that one of the little metal prongs where the plug plugs into the pot was gone.  It's inside the bottom of the damn pot!  Evidently those prongs deteriorate and then break off.
I want to get the 4-cup repaired, but I will probably have to spend the same as it would cost to buy a new one.  This doesn't seem cost effective to me.  Plus, if Farberware is cutting corners using cheaper parts, then they should lower the cost of the pot! 
What I did like about this pot is that it heated very quickly.  It took about 2 minutes to brew 4 cups.  The coffee tasted fine.  The one drawback is that the pot does not turn off.  You MUST unplug it immediately after you pour (if you have memory lapses).  If you forget to unplug it, the pot will continue to heat and burn up all residue left inside.
Oh, one more thing.  If you use regular ground store-bought coffee, you will have "mud" at the bottom of your cup.  You would probably need to grind your own beans more coarsely to eliminate the mud or use a paper coffee filter inside the basket.  I just tolerate the mud.