ID: B000OKHY2S-R2674IGLL79JUO-A3LDYUGV9CW17W
Category: AirConditioners
Product: SPT-SF-608R-Portable-Evaporative-Cooler
ReviewerID: A3LDYUGV9CW17W
ReviewerName: WSbelle
Date: June 30, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Sure beats being eaten by a bear! Heheh... Great gadget!
Content:
Well, I don't really expect to meet up with a bear, but... part of what prompted me to buy this cooler is the increase in wildlife activity near our house.  I don't always feel comfortable leaving the windows open as much as I used to.  Anyway, except late at night, in the summer the outside air is usually hotter than the inside air so it's better to keep them closed.  We had a fisher ('fisher-cat') show up last summer, something I'd never seen before.  Then, there are foxes.  And, of course, there's all the pollen and other stuff that comes in the windows.
Air conditioning hasn't done much for our weird little house, and it's ME that has to lift and install the stupid things and I just can't be bothered with that anymore!  Sick of putting the air conditioners in.  So, this Sunpentown evaporative cooler has been great, and very manageable.
It doesn't blast cold air like an air conditioner; true, it has it's limits.  But, especially if I put some ice paks in the top container with lid (which I then cover with my stack of small cleaning towels...this helps insulate), I notice that the air IS much cooler than it would be from just a regular fan.  
This gadget is nice and quiet and all the options for various settings, timer, etc., are wonderful.
We have very high humidity here (except in winter!) so I haven't bothered much with the actual evaporative-cooling aspect -- it would really only make a difference in a hot, dry place.  Still, I like having that option, because you never know, around here!
There was a slight issue with the float inside the cooler, but I was able to make a quick phone call and get some instructions emailed to me about how to make the simple fix.  This isn't new to me -- I've had to fix floats before, same type of situation, but with a hydroponic planter gadget.
Anyway -- I'm happy with this cooler and I may decide to get a few more in the future.