ID: B000AQSMPO-R5FC6P3PNP1Q6-AMS7FVJZM61P
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-B60-Special-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing
ReviewerID: AMS7FVJZM61P
ReviewerName: LV
Date: February 23, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 3.0
Title: A compromise for convenience
Content:
I've had my Keurig for about 8 months now. It works as advertised, but the resultant cup of coffee is not very robust and the control over the result is limited by the design. It's convenient to use with K-Cups, but it gets pretty expensive if you drink a fair amount of coffee. If you get the K-Cups (18 to pack) for $10.00 it equates to about 55 cents a cup, if you pay the normal price of $12 that most stores charge, it comes out to about 66 cents a cup. A pound of coffee makes about 30 cups, so if you buy a pound of Starbucks and use a conventional drip coffee maker, it comes out to about 26 cents a cup (assuming $8 a pound) and the coffee will taste much better. 
You can buy the accessory that allows you to use your own coffee, but the coffee comes out weak since the screen allows the water to filter through too quickly. It also negates the convenience of the machine since you need to clean the assembly for each cup of coffee you make. You're limited to using about 2 coffee measures if you go this route, so if the coffee is not strong enough for you, you can't add more. 
If you do buy this accessory, the trick to making the coffee taste stronger is to take a used K-Cup, open it up and remove the filter basket so that you now have an empty K-Cup shell. With a knife, cut the top lip off of the plastic K-Cup shell. When you make your own coffee, fill the screen basket with the coffee, then drop the screen basket inside the plastic shell from the old K-Cup and insert it into the holder as you normally would. The old K-Cup will keep the water from filtering through the screen so quickly and you will end up with a cup of coffee that approximates that of an actual K-Cup.
The largest cup size you can make is 10 oz which is a pretty small mug. Other than these observations, I've had no problems with the machine functioning as advertised and the coffee comes out hot enough. I've tired of the price and limited choices of K-Cups. I always buy the "bold" ones since they seem to be the only ones that actually have enough flavor. I find myself not using it very often now instead opting for a French press or 4 cup electric coffee maker, both make a more robust cup of coffee. If you like the convenience of using pre-packaged K-Cups and don't mind the cost and limited choices available, then this is a nice machine.