ID: B000I3ZCWU-R3DIEQ6EKZIZIN-A3M57FOYTJN57H
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-10-1MP-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A3M57FOYTJN57H
ReviewerName: M. Hammer "Alo"
Date: July 22, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Mother of two finds a serious upgrade to the point and shoot!  Fabulous and Fast
Content:
After taking thousands of pics of my two year old and my new born with my HP point and shoot, I finally gave up.  None of the pictures were of the 'moment' or 'expression' I was trying to capture.  I was always taking pictures of their backs or their looking away or xxx.  Anything but what I wanted.  Then the quality of the pictures were never quite right unless I took the picture in full blown day light.  
Finally decided to splurge. After extensive research on the Canon XTi vs the Nikon, I ultimately opted for the Canon.  I bought it along with the portrait EF 50mm that seems to be highly rated by many.  I later purchased the EF 28-105mm.  Upon receiving the camera, I went to town taking pics of my little ones.  What I found:
Pros:
-  Fast. Very fast.  Wow.  I've yet to miss a shot.  
-  Outstanding pics.  Pics with the EF28-105 good.  Pics with the EF 50mm, outstanding.  Many look like they were taken by a pro.  Trust me. I am no pro.  I'm a working mom looking for some good pics to put on their website and send to Grandma and Grandpa.  On average, with my point and shoot, I'd get 1 out 20 that were worthy of that.  Now, I average 5-6 out of 10 at a higher bar of course.
-  Versitile.  I can play around with different settings and Canon lenses.  Fun but expensive.
-  Battery charges fast.  Battery life outstanding.  I honestly don't think I've had to charge the batteries but 2-3 times since I bought it five months ago and have taken thousands of pics. 
-  The 4GB SD card keeps more pics than I could ever want. 
Cons.  
If you are a working kind of mom like I am and just want an awesome camera to take awesome pics, you've found it.  However, there is one big downside:  it's bigger...way bigger than a point and shoot.  It's not as easy to throw in your purse and go out for a splash day.   I have found myself leaving it behind because I just didn't want to lug it along with the diaper bag, a toddler and an infant...car seat, snacks, toys, bottles, wipes...etc.  The bag is heavy enough.  But, those pics are priceless as far as I am concerned and will sacrifice more often than not and find myself glad for having done so.  
LENSES.  This took me longer to figure out than which camera to buy.  I searched for a month before I committed.  Given the affordability of the 50mm and its reviews, I opted to do without the kit lens.   
Admittedly, I regretted it at first.  What!? No zoom.  As you can tell, I'm a serious amatuer and didn't know what I was getting into. But, despite the one time I wanted to take a group pic that required me to step clear to the other side of the house to get them in, 99% of the time, I'm trying to get a good close up of my kids...many pics by default at this age tend to be close ups.  Then, there is a subtle difference between the pictures I have taken with this lens and the 28-105--crisper, cleaner and outright beautiful color.  
The 28-105 is actually not bad especially if you use it with the hood.  The zoom is about what I figure I will need at ball games and ballerina recitals when I don't have to worry about lugging a diaper bag and keeping after a climbing/crawling baby.  For the price, I figure it's doable.
There you have it, Amazon shopping Moms. I hope this Review was helpful.  I found many of the reviews targeting semi-pros so it took a while to sift through it all!