ID: B00012XCZW-R2IW2E56096RIU-AJ9WS83CDTYBY
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Bunn-NHB-Professional-Brewer-Black
ReviewerID: AJ9WS83CDTYBY
ReviewerName: R. Plourde
Date: August 20, 2004
Helpful: 205 of 211
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great tasting coffee
Content:
I'm fond of some of the 'thicker' smokier coffees.  Mocha Matari (while difficult to find) is among my favorites.  Normal drip pots (including some expensive ones) don't provide the complexity of flavor I enjoy.  (I suspect the water is too hot, the brewing cycle is too long, and the coffee is over-extracted.)
One of my daughters is a coffee fanatic.  She brought me some Ethopian coffee that she insisted I just had to try.  So I ground it up, brewed it with the Bunn, and tasted it.  The coffee was great.  But my daughter's comments were revealing.  "This tastes so good at home, but so much better here.  My birthday is coming up -- I know what I want for a gift."
And that's basically what it comes down to.  Even supermarket "100% Columbian" coffee tastes pretty good, better than it has any right to taste.
There are a couple of down-sides, though.  It keeps the water hot all the time, and that means that the water evaporates over time.  Get accustomed to brewing a pot a day, and if you brew two pots in a row, you'll get more water than you expect and the coffee will be thin.  Go away for the weekend, and you'll have less water than you expected when you return.  Also, the brewing does not over-extract the coffee compared to most other brewing machines, and that means that to get the strength of coffee you want, you'll probably want to use about 20% more coffee than what you're accustomed to.  Also, the quick extraction seems to brew the coffee with less caffeine, so if coffee is something you use to get started after not enough sleep, and not something to savor, this may not be for you.
But what you get in return is something that doesn't just open your eyes, but that tastes better than you probably thought was possible.  For my money, there is no second choice.
Also -- stock up on the Bunn filter papers.  They're deeper, and that's necessary to keep grounds from overflowing.  The quick brew cycle means that there's more water in with the coffee than with typical coffee brewers, and standard filters can't contain all that water.
-R