ID: B000BK393Y-R5L5A33FDUKWP-A2AL3G901ZFFVE
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Evolt-E500-Digital-Body
ReviewerID: A2AL3G901ZFFVE
ReviewerName: Music Man "Aficianado"
Date: April 1, 2007
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: PhotoWolf
Content:
I have had this camera for 4 months now and its an outstanding pro-sumer grade digital SLR.  The Amazon price for this camera body and two lens kit is simply the best price to be found anywhere, and is less than most vendors charge for this camera with a single lens.  No longer do I mourn the loss of my Nikon 8008s 35mm Film Camera.
Both lenes have outstanding optics and the metering system is superb.  The included lens hoods are very helpful, but make sure you take them off for flash photography.  The lenses operate quietly and quickly.  They have nice grip.
The built-in pop up flash is adequate for close-up snap shots, but you'll want one of the two available dedicated flash units the FL-36 or FL-50.  Don't waste your time or money with the FL-20.  I bought the FL-36, which is a full featured dedicated flash with significant manual overrides just as with the camera to meet your creative needs.  I'm likely to further upgrade to the FL-50 which is a more powerful full professional grade flash.
For serious photographers, this camera gives you total manual control that provides overrides for every possible setting to ensure you realize your full creative needs (just as with any professional 35mm or digital SLR).  
The automatic settings for focus and exposure are outstanding as well.  There are several program modes for various types of shooting and a user program mode where you can essentially make your specific manual settings an automatic set-up.  
The controls are well placed, except for the the one-touch White Balance and the Auto-Focus frame buttons are right where you may normally want to place your right thumb while holding the camera, especially if you're taking vertical shots.  The large LCD display is excellent and easy to read even in bright light, but be advised that its not for composing and lining up your pictures.  The display is for making your camera settings and viewing the pictures you've taken.  You must compose your shots through the viewfinder only.  The viewfinder gives you gives you plenty of camera setting information along with immediate exposure and composition feedback so you can make adjustments without removing your eye from the viewfinder.
The camera shoots in every file format that complete amatuers want and serious professional photographers need ranging from various degrees of quality for jpeg all the way up to TIFF and several RAW settings.  The has shutter speeds that go from manual settings up to 1/4000th and an ISO range up to 1600.
The camera is built solid, is very well balanced and lightweight.  It looks great and feels great with a nice grip.  The included Olympus LBH-1 battery has extraordinary life.  I had in the camera for the first 3 months without a change or charge.  In that time I took over 600 pictures, and often found that I had left the camera on when I went to pull it out of my bag for the next shoot.  In fact, during my trip to Ireland during this mentioned timeframe. I basically left the camera on night and day for an entire week and had juice to spare when I got home.  Phenominal!
As mentioned the included lenses with this kit (wide angel to normal & normal to long telephoto) are very, very good.  I'm so pleased with the overall performance and capabilities of the camera itself, that I'm definitely going to invest heavily in the professional level lens upgrades.  With the exception of the Macro and extreme wide angle, those lenses are essentially the same focal lengths as included with this camera kit.  However the upgrades are "faster" lenses allowing for more very low light levels and a greater ability to capture sports activity.
Bottomline, this camera is fantastic and has everything that far more expensive professional cameras have.  Olympus has a full range of accessories for serious and professional photographers that amatuers can work their way up to.  This camera has it all at price that no one seems able to beat.