ID: B000VDQ38E-R22TIJ5NO7LQK2-A1B7KVHWT8IJBZ
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1B7KVHWT8IJBZ
ReviewerName: Michelle C "Michelle"
Date: July 18, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 3.0
Title: It is just "ok"
Content:
I'm giving this vacuum a generous three stars.  I should probably give it two out of five.  
I bought this vacuum a few weeks ago.   I chose this vacuum because I have two cats (one black long-hair and one orange short-air).    First, I used free super savor shipping and it arrived earlier than expected. I give Amazon the usual 5 out of 5 stars.  It was easy enough to put together.   
The only other vacuum I have owned is a plain Bissell that cost less than 50.00, so I will be comparing it to that one.  I like the look of this vacuum.   It has a longer hose than the plain Bissell. I like this for vacuuming the stairs. It has a few more attachments.  The flexible attachment for hair removable does not impress me.  It does not remove anymore hair than just a plain vacuum brush.  I do like the spinning brush attachment.   I find that useful for stairs.    I guess this vacuum suctions A LITTLE better than my other vacuum. It is probably just me being hopeful.  It has a better height adjustment function.  I like the better HEPA filter.    This vacuum is heavier to push and pull back.  It isn't a big deal but I wanted to be informative.  This vacuum is constantly getting clogged where the debris enters the canister and in the hose.  This happens even when the canister is less than half full.   What is the point of having a HEPA filter when I constantly have to dig the debris and dust out.  The canister is terribly small.  Expect to empty the cansiter multiple times while cleaning.   I have never used a bagless vacuum before but if the other brands are this small I will never buy one again.  
Does this vacuum do its job? Yes. Do I think I got my 137.00 dollars worth in this vacuum?   No.    Would I buy it again?  No.   My $45.00 vacuum works just fine and I was impressed with its value.    Oh well...you live you learn and it didn't break the bank.