ID: B000I3XQNC-R3L62WUE24MMJ1-A1PSLR9QI07BXR
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-10-1MP-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A1PSLR9QI07BXR
ReviewerName: S. Tate
Date: February 26, 2007
Helpful: 21 of 22
Rating: 4.0
Title: Very Nice Camera
Content:
I have used the same 35mm film camera for 20 years.  So now I have decided to dive into the digital camera pool.  This was my first digital camera purchase.  I researched digital cameras on the internet and decided to get the Canon Digital Rebel XTi.  My reasons for getting this camera are:
1.  No shutter lag - This means that when you press the button to take the picture, the camera takes the picture at that moment.  This is a very important issue when taking things that happen all of a sudden.  A friend of mine had a little pocket digital camera at spring break...lets just say he was very disipointed with the shutter lag on his camera.
2.  View finder - Maybe I am so used to my regular 35mm film camera that I just have to have a view finder.  A lot of the point and shoot cameras don't have a view finder.  You have to use the LCD screen to see what you are looking at.  That can be handy if you are holding the camera away from your face to take a picture.  But I like to look at what I want to take the picture of and bring the camera up to my eye...done.  No trouble finding exactly what you want to shoot.  Remember, with the XTi camera, the LCD screen only shows the picture after you take it.  You can't use the LCD to view what you want to take.
3.  The feel - Again, probably from my 35mm camera, but I just love the feel of a regular sized camera in my hand.
4.  Continuous shooting - This is a fast camera for taking multiple shots in a row.  Great for action shots.
5.  The Price - This is still not a cheap camera, but it is cheaper than most of the others.
The things to look out for on this camera are the settings.  This camera has lots of settings and buttons.  This is a good thing, but if you are not used to cameras, it can be a lot to take in.  The only thing I noticed about this camera is on outside photos, if you get a lot of sky in the shot, it can make the rest of your photo a little on the dark side.  There are settings to correct for this.  So over all, this is a great camera.  I am still getting used to all of the settings.