ID: B0009U7MV6-R1LH3YSSMZRS08-A16PJLCQ31NL8R
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-Digital-Camera-18-55mm-f3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A16PJLCQ31NL8R
ReviewerName: Richard
Date: March 25, 2006
Helpful: 33 of 34
Rating: 5.0
Title: the K1000 of digital SLRs
Content:
I decided that I needed to get on-board the digital wave beyond my Kycocera EVF digital camera, meaning I needed an SLR.  I chose Pentax as several newer film cameras, lenses and flash units I own are all Pentax.  The flash units, and lenses for Pentax autofocus, autoexposure (KAF mount) 35mm cameras are interchangeable on the *ist DL, a huge plus!  I love knowing I can use AA batteries, CRV3 batteries or an AC adapter (on order).
The DL is a joy to hold, the weight is less than my ZX-Ls and the ergonomics are even better.  A couple of competitors' cameras that I have handled afterwards actually felt clunky to me. The LCD viewfinder is great (please let it be known, to save battery life it will time out much sooner than many folks are accustomed to with digi pocket cameras).  The multifunction dial for auto shooting, or manual settings is pretty muchthe same as other models I have, cutting down the time I needed to read the manual.  The "slim" filter feature is a unique feature to Pentax units I believe.
The kit lens is sharp and clear, and the equivalent to a 28-80mm lens in 35mm format, which suits most of my needs.  The DA lens does not have an aperture ring, so those of us so accustomed to having one must learn to use the electronic settings (or use an earlier lens, on aperture priority).  A few drawbacks I have read about the DL is that for sports/action use the autofocus may not be fast enough for some guys, and the AF360FGZ flash (I have one)does not swivel.  I can get around those items; to me a big plus is that's been reported that Pentax digitals have less noise than many competitors at higher ASA/ISO settings, enabling you to use it in low light situations with less noise (I still want to call it "grain") in your images.  As soon as the weather improves, I am going to really see what this baby can do beyond the test pics I have taken indoors.
A great camera to learn digital SLR photography with, just as the old K1000 was for 35mm.