ID: B0001K5GOE-R3GVJL7GCYV6TX-ARILG9AYOD20K
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dyson-DC-11-Telescope-Canister
ReviewerID: ARILG9AYOD20K
ReviewerName: C. Matte "dinosmile"
Date: February 24, 2005
Helpful: 15 of 15
Rating: 4.0
Title: great little vacuum
Content:
I have to say that we love this vacuum and have been recommending it to everyone.  We chose it specifically because our entire house (with the exception of one room) is hardwood.  In response to some earlier posts, this is NOT a difficult vacuum to use.  It does require some basic setup, but I didn't have any challenges with that.  And when using the floor tool on non-carpeted surfaces, you should turn off the brushes - the suction is enough to pick up things (including pennies!) and it will keep the brushes from "flicking" objects away.  Also, my husband thinks it does a great job on the carpet in his office as well.
What I like most:
1. It's SO small and light - easy to carry around the house, up and down stairs, etc.
2. It's fairly quiet - I was surprised at how quiet it is since consumer reports didn't rank it very highly in that area.
3. It picks things up from the corners, even when using the floor tool.  The suction is just that good.  
4. It has a decreased suction level for doing curtains, area rugs, etc.
5. I like being able to see all of the dirt that it has picked up - silly as this may sound, it inspires me to vacuum more often.
6. I find the switch to turn the brushes off easy to use (and easy to turn off again).
7. It's very easy to empty the canister, although the potential is there for a big mess!
8. We actually have the DC11 Full gear, which is silver and purple, so as trivial as it may be, I love the way it looks.
9. It picks up all the cat hair off the couch.  Hurray!
Things I think could be better:
1. As mentioned before, the power cord is too short.  Since it's so small, that may be hard to avoid, but it can be a bit of a pain.
2. Also as mentioned before, I find that the telescoping wand doesn't always stay extended as I'm cleaning.
3. I agree with a previous poster that it would be nice to have the power button and the cord retract button more obviously distinguishable.
Despite the few small design quirks, this is truly an amazing vacuum.