ID: B0007QKMSC-R2JTO2RF9CNDMS-A2A93GOVH9V522
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-Camera
ReviewerID: A2A93GOVH9V522
ReviewerName: Adam Hedrick "Photographer"
Date: December 31, 2006
Helpful: 24 of 24
Rating: 5.0
Title: A Year Review
Content:
Well, it has been a year since I recieved my Rebel XT and I am more than pleased with the camera. The build quality, features, and photo quality have made this camera a joy to own and use.
When I first decided to move from film to digital, I began the long and tedious process of researching all the cameras on the market at the time. I had previously owned many Canon film cameras and compact digital cameras, so they were of course my first choice. I looked at Nikon, Olympus, Canon, and Konica(now Sony) dSLR's.
The Canon came out on top in all catergories with the exception of a few at the time, such as price because of the Nikon D50, though the Rebel's other features clearly outway the Nikon. Overall, the Canon is just a superior camera, so hopefully, that saves you the trouble of spending nearly a month researching.
Alright, so how is that camera? It is wonderful. It fits well in my hands and everything is where it should be. It does feel a little light, but it is made to be compact and light, plus that can easily be remidied by adding a battery grip. All of it's settings and features are virtually identical to the more expensive 20D, as is the image quality. There is a good amount of grain at ISO 1600, which is really a shame, but that can generally be fixed in an image editing program or by using a flash. The battery life is very good, but I do reccomend purchasing that battery grip that I mentioned before. Not only does it add weight and balance the camera, but it also doubles the battery life, which is good for those of us who go out and take thousands of pictures.
This is just a wonderful camera for the prosumer crowd, and there is no reason that it cannot be used as a pro camera for creating prints and such. I would recomend this to anyone looking to break into photography or someone who has been photographing for 30 years.
My recomendations:
- Get a few extra batteries and a battery grip. Remember, you don't have to buy a Canon grip or batteries, and if you don't, you'll probably save at least 50%. Do some research on here. The Opteka grip is great, it is what I own, and you can find a huge number of batteries, just pick own with a good review.
- Sigma lenses are generally in expensive, take great shots, and are durable. Some Canon lenses will have better optics, but will cost at least twice as much.
- Get the Canon 50mm f/1.8. It is a very inexpensive lens(about $60 - $70) and takes amazing shots.
- Big memory cards are amazing. Buy one, seriously. I have a 6GB card and shoot in RAW, so I get about 650 pictures. JPG will get 2000. I need another one because I shoot so much.
- External hard drives are a must for all those big files. I have a 250GB Phantom Drive, and I reccomend that, but there are now many cheaper alternatives.
- Don't forget a tripod and/or a monopod, a flash(though it does have one, external flashes are much better), and filters if you want to experiment.
Hope you enjoy your camera as much as I have!