ID: B000VDQ38E-R3HLKNILGC7PVA-A3O3VMIGC318GA
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A3O3VMIGC318GA
ReviewerName: K. Dixon
Date: July 4, 2008
Helpful: 22 of 25
Rating: 1.0
Title: Heavy, Loud, and broke quickly
Content:
I read the reviews before purchasing this vac, and was expecting a great product. How wrong I was! I have to say the suction power is nice - that's why I gave it 1 star. As for everything else - this is a lousy vacuum. I have never owned a vacuum as loud as this. I'm sure it must even disturb the neighbors when I run it. On top of the really loud roar, mine also has an intermittent whine to add to my hearing pleasure.
  This vacuum is also very heavy. The weight  makes it hard to maneuver around. You can't roll over it's own cord - so have fun picking this beast up.
  It broke the third time I used it. The plastic hose wand is thin and flimsy, and it cracked at the tip where you insert a hose tool. Not a good omen for future reliability as far as I am concerned.
  It  does not work well on edge cleaning. I found myself using the accessory tools to clean the edge of the room before I vacuumed the center. That is just too much work. Also the cannister is very small. I have three cats - none shed all that much -yet I have to empty the cannister after each room, otherwise it's clogged- the dirt gets stuck up out of reach in the top of the cannister.
  Update Oct. 2008 - the hose has become lax. When I vacuum it becomes unattached. Because the vacuum is so loud - I have no idea this happens until I notice that all the dirt is spewing into the air next to me - NOT INTO THE CANNISTER. This happened about every other time I vacuumed. I finally gave up on this vacuum. If I hadn't thrown the box away I would have returned the darn thing. 
  Instead I purchased a remanufactured Dyson dc07 for $149.99 here on Amazon. It cost less than the Bissell and works a WHOLE lot better.
  Pass this one up folks. It really doesn't have anything good going for it.