ID: B000V5QV4S-R11ZWREXVVA061-A3IPSECQAUAT8V
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-40D-Digital-28-135mm-Standard
ReviewerID: A3IPSECQAUAT8V
ReviewerName: JanSobieski
Date: September 6, 2007
Helpful: 73 of 93
Rating: 4.0
Title: A phenomenal picture taking machine!
Content:
The 40D is a phenomenal camera with excellent high ISO performance (though not appreciably better than my 20D in  my own tests), more megapixels (10MP), rudimentary weather sealing, improved fps rate, automatic dust removal, spot metering, a 3 inch LCD, auto ISO and improved autofocus.  Finally, it also has the ISO displayed in the viewfinder which prior iterations of this camera lacked.  It is an excellent camera - make no mistake about that, however  I'm disappointed that the autofocus wasn't further improved.  
The pictures have a smooth buttery depth similar to my 20D - to my eye, possibly slightly better.  They are simply beautiful (taken mostly with my 70-200 L).  In my own tests, the noise performance is roughly equivalent to the 20D.  Canon has managed to add the extra megapixels without additional noise - quite a feat though I suspect that the APS sized sensor has reached the maximum number of pixels that can be packed in without degrading the high ISO performance and dynamic range both every bit as important, if not more so, than the number of pixels.  The menu system is much improved over my 20D and there are three user defined modes that one can easily accessed.  The camera feels essentially the same in my hands as my old 20D.  While the additional 2 megapixels don't add much in terms of picture quality they do provide some head room for cropping.  The door to the CF card has a more secure feel to it than my 20D.  The 3 inch viewing screen is a vast improvement over my 20D, bright and clear.  And it focuses far more quickly and accurately than my 20D.
Canon has enjoyed a dominant position in the digital SLR market ever since the D30.  It's lead, in this segment of the market, mostly evaporated with the introduction of Nikon's D200, the D40X and the D80.  With these cameras Nikon pulled even, or close enough to establish themselves as legitimate contenders.  Still Canon has had the edge in high ISO performance.  The problem is that Canon has rested on its laurels and insisted on improving its cameras incrementally, protecting the market of their more expensive cameras.  Certain feature sets (such as professional grade auto-focus and weather sealing) have been withheld in an attempt to maintain the clear distinctions between Canon's various camera lines while Nikon has been much more generous in incorporating advanced features lower down their product food chain. Canon's strategy worked just fine when Canon enjoyed a dominant lead over the competition, but as I mentioned its lead has been severely cut into by Nikon and now even Sony is introducing a respectable DSLR.  None of the foregoing detracts from the fundamental fact that this is a fantastic camera.
For the money, the 40D is a great buy.  It is the best camera for the money Canon has introduced so far and, though not particularly daring, still represents a very good buy at this price point, but Nikon's D40x and D80 currently offer better values and the Nikon D300, though priced higher, is much more feature rich.   The 40D's picture quality is simply fantastic and its high ISO performance is, at this point in time, STILL the gold standard for this class of camera and in this size sensor.  But it could have been so much more had Canon simply listened to their customers and understood that the digital SLR market is no longer being defined by Canon alone.  I'm giving this camera only 4 stars because Canon should have given us more.  
If you own a 10D or a 20D (as I did) the upgrade to a 40D does make some sense.  However, if you own a 30D the upgrade is a bit more difficult to rationalize.  IMO, in the area the counts most, image quality, there is not a significant improvement over the 20D or 30D to justify the upgrade at this time PARTICULARLY in light of the fact that Nikon has raised the bar substantially.  Canon will have to come to the table quickly with a much improved version of the 40D including pro grade auto-focus and real weather sealing that most have been asking for.  
For first time buyers, the build quality and features are excellent justifying the purchase price, but unless you are married to the Canon system, as I am, take a close look at the various offerings from Nikon including the upcoming D300, the D40x and the D80.  I just wish Canon had been more aggressive and daring with this camera giving its customers more of the features they have been clamoring for.  The very good news is that Nikon is back in the saddle again.  This can only be good for all DSLR consumers in general and Canon owners in particular as more features and capabilities will be packed into all future offerings.  I love my camera but am a bit disappointed it did not represent a greater improvement over the 20D.