ID: B000VDQ38E-R3RA80NAZCX1V5-A3JMQ10EK3CFJS
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A3JMQ10EK3CFJS
ReviewerName: groove76 "You say 'why?' I say 'why bother?' ...
Date: November 25, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: A good machine, but it needs your attention and patience
Content:
When I first got the Bissell Pet Hair Eraser about a year and a half ago, I was amazed by how much it picked up. It was so powerful that it not only picked up the hair on the carpet but also lifted matted down fibers of my 13-year old carpet up, making it almost feel like new and to the point I could leave footprints in my carpet after a cleaning. Amazingly, in addition to this, I think I may have emptied the bucket about six times the first time I ran it, and that was dirt from just three people and a beagle. The attachments worked well, especially on blinds and curtains, removing thick layers of stuck, coated dust. The cord was very long and to the point where I could vacuum my entire floor without stopping to change outlets. All in all, after the first usage I felt the machine was worth the $150, and it's likely you'll also be amazed and very pleased with how this vacuum performs right out of the box.
However, it's keeping it performing that way that is the challenge.
The attention and maintenance needed for the Pet Hair Eraser is something I didn't expect really. If you're interested in keeping the vacuum a while and keeping it running correctly, you have to pay it some attention and expenses in maintenance costs. Determining if it needs something is by noticing how it sounds, smells and obviously whether or not it's picking things up like when you first got it. 
To a degree I didn't mind this, but I now find every time I use this vacuum I have to check the bucket and two filters on it to make sure they're clean, as well as sometimes tipping the machine over to see if there's anything visibly stuck because it can sound like it is struggling at times. Replacing the HEPA filter about once or twice a year (approximately $15; it becomes visibly dirty and if you don't, risk ruining the vacuum's motor), replacing the belt (approximately $7 for two; it loses its elasticity and hence fails to turn the roller) and cleaning the roller itself are what's involved. It's this latter job that I find the worst, but likely common with all vacuums. If you have someone in your family who sews and drops thread on the floor, or just someone or something who sheds a lot of long hair, I'd recommend asking them to do the wholly unpleasant job of removing the roller and cutting all the thread and hair from it that's become entangled on the roller: a dirty, filthy, disgusting job, but it's gotta be done.
The fact that the Pet Hair Eraser is bag-less is nice coming from someone who's only used Hoovers with bags. It can be immensely satisfying to see the fruits of your labor and what's being picking up, not to mention the savings on bags. However, I have read other reviews here that a lot of what is in the bucket could be your carpet's fibers and less dirt or pet hair, though I wonder about this claim. The only other complaint I have with this bag-less system is that, and I'm sure it's been noted before on other reviews, when you remove the bucket, all the debris and dust you picked up that didn't fall into the bucket from above falls down with the removal of it for emptying. If it doesn't, sometimes large amounts of hair can get clogged up in the chamber that you'll have to manually free (carefully) with an instrument. This can create one mess that the vacuum can't clean up. You'll need to get a wet paper towel and wipe all the plastic around the machine and then likely run the vacuum where you cleaned it. This is a very bothersome task especially if you like the appearance of your vacuum to be as clean as your carpets.
Despite all this I give the people at Bissell credit for making a machine that does a challenging job. I don't know how I would engineer it differently if given the chance to be honest, so that maintaining it wasn't such a chore in itself and that it somehow kept after itself, but it does keep my carpets free of a lot of filth and dog hair and I'm willing to get my hands a little dirty in exchange for this. 
Overall, like all machines, the Bissell Pet Hair Eraser can give you what you need as long as you perform the required maintenance and don't abuse it.