ID: B000BR0MFK-R1DV2DQ3QM8SYQ-A3CLCRNNY25UKH
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-nano-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A3CLCRNNY25UKH
ReviewerName: Ed Mufflin "MoMo"
Date: December 24, 2007
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excelent little player!
Content:
I received my 3rd Gen. iPod Nano a little less than a month ago as a gift. Before that, I had a clunky, ugly, and constrained Nomad Muvo2 from Creative Labs. It was functional, but it was so constrained that I could do no more than listen to music. I never actually wanted an iPod before I saw the Nano in the Apple store. What a breath of fresh air!! The new iPod Nano is so versatile, so intuitive, and so sleek that I will never try an inferior brand of MP3 players again. And talk about video quality! I thought that I would get eyestrain watching such a tiny screen, but the quality of the iPod's screen is so detailed that your eyes trick you into thinking you're watching your video on a bigger screen, and iPod games look great on this player. 
I must mention that there are several downsides that you should know before buying this otherwise great system: 
1. You can't play radio right off--you'll have to buy an FM receiver which is sold by a plethora of companies in just about any store. 
2. You can only synch to one playlist. This means that you can't take files off several computers at the same time like MP3 players, instead you have to have all of your music on one computer. 
3. You can't play MP3. You instead have to go through a lengthy process of letting iTunes convert all of your MP3 files into a readable format. 
4. Unlike most MP3 players, you can't just slide off a panel in the back and insert a new rechargeable battery when yours dies. You can buy replacement batteries for the iPod, but you have to crack open your iPod to insert it. So, unless you are comfortable messing with hardware (like myself), plan on buying a new iPod in three to four years (that's probably time for a new one anyway, though. 
5. Battery life: it's very limited (2-5 hours depending on what you're doing), and you can only charge from your computer unless you buy an AC or DC adapter. I wouldn't go on a long car-trip without a car charger. 
6. iPod only supports MPEG4 videos. This means that, if you have a system that can record TV and put it on you computer in readable files, it has to be able to record in MPEG4, or you have to get file converter software, which can be expensive. 
7. When the iPod crashes (it's happened to me twice in the time that I've had it), it is easily remedied with the restore function on iTunes. But, before you click that button, I must warn you that it will erase all of your settings (except the time and date) and all of the high-scores and accounts on your games. 
I know that all of these "downsides" sound like I'm trying to discourage you, but I still give the Nano a 5-star rating because, in spite of all of these little bugs and disadvantages (which aren't all that difficult to deal with), the Apple 3rd Gen. iPod Nano is still, at the end of the day, one of the best (if not the best) music player on the market today. If you can find a better player anywhere, please tell me, I would like to know.