ID: B0000X7CMQ-R3G15O9NTVNN4-A55K1WFN6IS5L
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Zojirushi-EC-BD15-Thermal-Carafe-Coffee
ReviewerID: A55K1WFN6IS5L
ReviewerName: Dan L. Nichols
Date: April 8, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good Unit
Content:
I have owned many coffee makers in my time.  My last coffee maker was the Consumer Reports #1 rated Cuisinart DCC-1200 12-Cup Brew Central.  It is still practically brand new but I can't stand the burnt taste the burner gives the coffee ... even with the plate temp set to low.  Before that I owned the Braun Impressions thermal carafe.  The Braun unit worked well but the auto off switch broke in about six months and the pause mechanism fell apart.
The Zojirushi EC-BD15 Fresh Brew Thermal Carafe  makes a great cup of coffee!  I need to let all of you know I may not be the connoisseur that so many are today.  I grind beans the night before and set the pot to kick on at 4:45am.  I like my coffee light and sweet plus I'm at the age where I do a 50% non-café to ward off the jitters.  The insulated carafe does a great job at keeping the coffee hot and I don't mind the lid at all; it works just like a thermos would.  I took a star away only because of the brewing temp.  I checked it at 185 at its hottest coming from the spray head.  I use Reverse Osmosis water at room temperature.  Because the coffee is waiting on me when I wake, I don't have a chance to pre warm the Carafe.
The Zojirushi is mostly made of a light weight plastic like the Braun unit.  I don't necessarily view this as a bad thing in this price range as long as it holds up.
The coffee is very good and I recommend this product.
Update:  I played around with preheating water in a microwave until I achieved brew temps of 205.  It did make the coffee stronger, I must say.  However, I liked the flavor of the coffee much better at 185.  Since individual tastes are so widely subjective, I don't wish to impose my opinion, just give a little different take for all to evaluate.    
Update: 5-10-09  I am unbelievably happy with the taste of the coffee this unit makes.  Also, the inside of the Carafe looks brand spanking new.  I don't know what they did to accomplish this but there is no brown staining like I saw with the Braun Carafe I formerly owned.