ID: B000BP7MRS-R15PFUI2ZTE9J-ADNQSHAGZBJH1
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Braun-KF590-Impressions-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: ADNQSHAGZBJH1
ReviewerName: D. Lacey
Date: January 11, 2006
Helpful: 50 of 51
Rating: 4.0
Title: An impressive little machine
Content:
This review is the result of my search for a decent full-featured 12-cup coffemaker, which seems to be an increasingly difficult task these days. The search began in August 05. We looked at the Cuisinart Retro-designed stainless model and  after sifting through the reviews and examining the store sample, it wasn't for us. It had a dumb water gauge, a narrow fill area, and a single lid over the coffe and water compartments, which in my opinion, could lead to grinds getting into the innards of the machine. Further, despite its cool stainless retro-industrial look, the bulky black base it sat on was butt-ugly. 
     So, we selected the nice-looking Krups FME-4. It had a great feature set and a great reputation-after all, our six year old Krups Aroma Pro was still making decent coffee. Well, the FME 4 turned out to be a complete disaster. After returning three to the store because of peeling hotplates, I started sending them back to Krups. In my stubborness to get one that worked properly, over three months, I sent five of them back to the factory for replacement. Too bad, all of them were junk. 
   Remembering the little plain Braun 10-cupper that we had years ago, it seemed like a good coffemaker with but one detraction, the on-off button was on the lower front of the unit and could easily be inadvertently turned on with no water in it if an item on the countertop nudged the switch. Over time, it was an annoyance, so we bought the Krups Aroma Pro with the switch up high.
 So, with the failure of the new Krups products, we went back to a Braun and resigned ourselves to a ten cup machine. 
My impression of the KF590 is that it makes VERY hot coffee,about 180 degrees, after brewing three cups. It is hot enough to pour into a cold cup and still be hot afterward. I'd say it's a plus. With other machines we'd always preheat our cups with hot tap water. And the KF590's warmer keeps it pretty hot as well. 
The machine brews quickly and quietly UNTIL is gets to the end of the cycle, when it spits, pops, and steams louder and longer than any machine we've had. I could hear it in the kitchen from our second-floor bedroom in the early morning quiet. The steam leaves a lot of condensation on the black plastic lid, but it evaporates without wiping.
The unit is very compact, and has a great carafe. The heavy basket is nice, but since it doesn't separate from the stainless steel shell, I don't think we'll be popping it into the dishwasher. 
The timer is simple and easy to operate. The programmable auto shutoff is great. You won't need to dig through drawers for The manual. Brief instructions are inside the fill lid.
Like most Euro coffemakers, it uses #4 cone filters and makes a very good cup of coffee. It lacks a 2-3 cup setting, but I don't think it makes much difference. A gold permanent filter is included. We don't use ours except if we run out of filters. Even then, a skillfully folded paper towel will also work. 
Overall, it's a well thought out design, but it could be quieter at the finish and also less steamy. I'd have to say it's a keeper, and is the best black and stainless programmable machine we've seen.