ID: B0009I4VE4-R8DNDVBA0TLRJ-A22WBBACZEB566
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D70S-6-1MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A22WBBACZEB566
ReviewerName: Gordon Smith
Date: May 28, 2006
Helpful: 17 of 17
Rating: 4.0
Title: Some thoughts about using manual focus lenses on the Nikon D70s
Content:
I have owned this camera for about two months now and have taken about 100 photographs (keepers) to date.  Because I have been involved in photography for almost 35 years, I have developed certain prejudices. In particular, I have never been comfortable with auto exposure and even less comfortable with auto focus. In fact, the last auto focus camera I owned was a Nikon N8008s that I ultimately sold at auction because I could not adapt to using the various auto settings.
However, I like this camera. Why? The D70s is a very easy camera to use and I have only had to refer to the manual to check on a couple of settings and look up some features. Honestly, set up takes only a few minutes and handling is not terribly different from a film camera. I should point out that this camera is really designed for auto focus lenses and if you choose to use your manual focus lot, you will disable many of the camera's features.
 
Because I am both stubborn and cheap (but mostly only when it comes to spending money on myself) I am using my manual focus lenses on this camera. It is true that I do not get any internal exposure meter readings and must rely on a handheld Gossen or the sunny 16 rule (quite effective, really) for exposure determination. The LCD preview screen thus is critical for determining or adjusting exposure. I should also point out that the depth of field preview feature is also lost when using manual focus lenses. I was stunned when I could not stop my lens down and burrowed through the manual to find out what I was doing wrong--which was nothing except that I was using the wrong type of lens. While I really miss this feature, I am not sure how big a loss it really is because of the viewfinder. Others have made mention of the low magnification and tunnel like views through the finder and I can attest to this fact. I compared finder views to my trusty old FM and was just stunned by how poorly the D70 compared.  
Ultimately the best camera is the camera you use and the D70 has become my camera of choice. Even though I am using this camera like a vintage M series Leica--i.e., handheld meter and presetting exposure in anticipation of a photograph--I find that I can live with this level of usability. At some point I will probably buy an auto focus lens (maybe the 35 f2) and make full use of the feature set.  But for now I content on using the camera the old fashioned way.