ID: B0009GZAWS-RDEM2IMPGBWQT-A1XQ6AZHZ278ZK
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-Camera-18-55mm-55-200mm
ReviewerID: A1XQ6AZHZ278ZK
ReviewerName: D. Gong
Date: October 24, 2005
Helpful: 88 of 90
Rating: 5.0
Title: wonderful camera for serious amatuar
Content:
This is a fantastic camera and I'm having a load of fun shooting with it.  If you want a real short review...solid body, amazing low light performance, get the 18-70 mm lens, shoot away and have fun!
Here is the long version:
A little photographic background about myself first.  I'm what you'd call an amatuar enthusiast.  My dad gave me Canon A-1 (35 mm SLR from the early 80's) to play with when I was in middle school. I still have and it still works great.  I use it occasionally now when I need the telephoto lens it has.  My first digital camera was an Apple Quicktake 100, a pioneering product, but not much real use.  I bought a Canon S30 in 2002, wonderful little camera took great pictures and can take a lot of abuse, when I moved to a Canon A95 last year, the S30 was passed to my mom.  In general, I can't say any bad things about all the Canon's I have owned, except the A95 costed me a bit in batteries.  The S30 and the A95 took great photos and are tough cameras.
Anyway, back  to the D50.  It's my first Nikon, actually it's my family's first Nikon.  It's also the most anyone has ever spent on a camera in my family (although what my dad spent on the A1 in 1982 dollars probably came close to this).  I got it primarily because I wanted to shoot in darker settings and need longer zoom than my A95 can provide.  I was seriously considering the Canon 350D.  I knew it would be a good camera because of my past experience with Canon.  But but in the end I decided to get the D50 instead on the grounds that the Nikon D50 body is better built and more pleasant to shoot with and has better noise performance at high ISO.  I also had a slight 'grass is greener on the other side of the fence' itch...in any case, after two weeks, I'm not disappointed with the D50.  Actually I'm pretty thrilled!
Here is my experience with the camera.  First of all, the camera feels great in my hand.  I feel like 'photographer' when I'm shooting with it.  The balance with the 18-70 mm nikkor f3.5-4.5 lens is good.  The camera doesn't feel tender or too plasticky.  It begs to be held.
Secondly, the low light performance of the camera is absolutely amazing. The camera has very low noise at ISO 800 and I use that setting on a regular basis.  At ISO 1600, the noise does increase a bit but the photos are still usable.  There is a work around where you can get the ISO 1600+ performance but the ISO 800 noise level.  Simply use +5 exposure compensation with ISO 800 in shutter priority mode.  Compare to a campact digicam, the difference in quality is night and day.  I very rarely use flash now.  That said, the built-in flash is not bad!  Pretty uniform illumination with good range.
Thirdly, the auto focusing does a very good job and pretty fast.  I rarely use the AF assistance lamp.  I turn it off unless I'm in an unlit room.  The AF will have problems focusing on uniform background but that's understandable.
The last thing I want to mention is that the battery life is excellent.  I have yet to drain the battery in one day yet.  Turning off the AF assist lamp, use less flash and turn off the sound all helps with battery life.  There are many other features of the camera that I haven't really played much yet...WB, sharping, saturation and etc., the auto mode on those parameters seem to do a fine job.
Here are my recommendations if you want to get this camera.  First, I'd forgo the 18-55 mm kit lens, get the body only and the 18-70 mm lens (normally part of the D70/D70s kit).  You'll appreciate that extra 15 mm often.  Second, get a fast 1 GB or more SD card.  A 1 GB card gives me about 270-300 photos at best JPG setting.  Third, get a nice camera bag like something by Lowepro.  It'll protect your camera and allow you to take it to many places that you won't take the camera to had you not had the camera bag.  Fourth, get a UV filter with the lens from the get go.  They say B+W is good, I got their MRC filter and now I'm worry free.  Lastly, send in your lens warranty card right after you get your lens!  If you don't you are giving away a 5 year warranty and it becomes a 1 year warranty.  My next purchase would be a nikkor 80-200 mm F2.8 zoom lens but that'll have to wait till I replenish my bank account somewhat.
In summary, this is a great camera for serious amatuars upgrading to their first dSLR.  Highly recommended.
You can check out my photos at http://www.flickr.com/photos/coolskipper/
It has photos taken with all of my cameras (Canon A-1, S30, A95 and the Nikon D50).