ID: B000I1YWLY-R23WEC0YE5OYGS-A2W62X238CEAU3
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL-Bagless-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A2W62X238CEAU3
ReviewerName: K. D'Orazio
Date: December 8, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Vacuum!
Content:
My husband and I have gone through so many vacuums in the last 10 years. I've only had this one for 3 months now, but I have a good feeling it will be our last one for a while.
The vacuum works great on our hard floors and our carpets. There are separate attachments for both. There is also an edger attachment, a dusting tool, and an upholstery tool included. I have found all the attachments to be good quality and worthwhile. The floor or carpet tools are interchangeable, and if you are using one, there is no place to store the other. The upholstery tool also doesn't have a place on the unit itself. This doesn't really bother me enough to reduce the stars below 5 stars. Also it takes a little muscle to change things out, but that doesn't bother me enough either.
The hose is long enough and the wand telescopes to be long enough for our 10 food ceilings, but also can be short enough that it is comfortable to do stairs. The feel of the vacuum is comfortable, and my husband and I have no trouble lifting the canister or carrying it to go up and down stairs. I read some reviews that said it was too heavy, but I don't agree with that. 
The dust/dirt container is easy to remove and empty. I like that it has a closed lid, so the dust doesn't come out until you want it to. It is smaller than the last one I had, and I have to empty it more often but that doesn't bother me. We keep a plastic shopping bag just outside the back door and empty the canister periodically while vacuuming and then put that in our outside garbage after. 
The twin filter is genius! When one filter is dirty, you flip a switch and turn on the unit. The vacuum sucks the dust/dirt out of the filter and cleans it automatically! I love that I don't have to worry about cleaning and drying or replacing the filter on this vacuum. My son has asthma and this is important to us. 
All the features are great, including the controls being conveniently placed on the wand. You can operate the on/off button, the carpet/floor button, and the suction level all from the wand. It is much better than bending over and looking for the switch on the unit. There is also a light on the carpet tool that helps you to see what you are doing. 
The suction power and cleaning power of this vacuum is fantastic. The first time I cleaned with this vacuum, I filled the canister 8 times. I was impressed that this vacuum picked up what so many others had missed. I continue to see results after using it twice a week for the last 3 months. 
The vacuum is pretty quiet too. It's quieter than any vacuum I've ever heard. My kids used to turn up the TV all the way when I vacuumed before, and now it's only a few clicks more than the normal volume. My husband and I can talk to each other with a raised voice instead of shouting and not hearing. 
The best part about this vacuum is that I purchased it on the Refurbished Electrolux Web Site. Instead of paying $500 for this great vacuum, I got it for $250. It came with a 2 year warranty from the factory. The Site explains that they fix any problems that a returned vacuum may have, clean it up, and give it a two year warranty. It makes sense to me that if a vacuum had a problem before, I'm happy that it's fixed and I won't have to worry about it. If something does break, they seem as if they are easy to get a hold of on the customer service line and it will be under warranty. 
Definitely purchase this vacuum, and purchase it on the factory refurbished web site!