ID: B00006IV0Q-R33Z20X6R0F6DE-AFZ2FOX2FM2T9
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Presto-02811-12-Cup-Stainless-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: AFZ2FOX2FM2T9
ReviewerName: Jerry H. Chan "chansw"
Date: April 27, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Let coffee rest for best flavor
Content:
Our old coffee maker (Cuisineart DGB-300) made great-tasting coffee that was full-bodied and flavorful without bitterness. Unfortunately, that unit bit the dust after about 4 years. Having had success with this Cuisineart, we decided to give one of the newer models a try (DC1250 grind and brew model from Sam's Club). However, the coffee from that unit tasted awful (thin and bitter) from the get-go no matter what we used (whole beans, pre-ground), and the flavor only improved slightly over the next few weeks. I returned the DC1250 and continued my search for a decent coffee maker under $100.
I ended up getting the Presto based on feedback from other Amazon reviews. The first week was pretty disappointing (a lot of experimenting with grind coarseness and amounts), tasted very much like the Cuisineart DC1250 -- the flavor was all over the place, sometimes bitter, other times too weak. However, we stuck with the unit and discovered that using two level tablespoons of pre-ground coffee per serving (my wife and I like Dunkin Donuts regular), the coffee wasn't that bad -- a little "thin", but otherwise pretty good.
One day, my wife made the coffee and it tasted ***really good***. I asked if she did anything different, she said no. As it turned out, when I made the coffee, I was pouring a cup within a minute or so after the brew light indicator turned on. On that morning, the coffee had been sitting for about 15 minutes before I poured my cup.
So to make a long story shorter, the flavor profile of the coffee changes pretty dramatically over time with this unit. For me, the flavor peaks after sitting (with the power still on) between 10 and 30 minutes. If it sits too much longer than that, it tends to get thicker and darker / stronger, but still not too objectionable.
All-in-all, I am pleased with the unit. It's simple to use, relatively easy to clean and a joy to drink the delicious coffee it brews. Just give the coffee some time to rest before pouring.