ID: B000GTR2F6-R1ILSF8IXWR36X-ANEXFROORI6F6
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Platinum-Single-Cup-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: ANEXFROORI6F6
ReviewerName: Pilchard
Date: October 9, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: This is a work of modern art that makes great coffee
Content:
Edit: Early April 2010 - Our Keurig has been making wonderful coffee since mid-December. Unfortunately the portion size was getting ever smaller. The largest size yielded about as much as the smallest size did when it was new less than 4 months ago. Fortunately running white vinegar through it for about an hour solved the problem. A bottle of white vinegar costs about a buck at a large box store and this was not a significant issue and may be due to our water being hard.
Initial review: For years, I've had an individual coffee cup machine that used ground coffee from the stores. We have friends who purchased Keurig coffee makers, and finally decided to give one a try.
It wasn't hard to go with the B70, as it produces the largest cup, and it seemed the largest cup the B70 could make was about the smallest cup acceptable to me.
The unit arrived, and seemed to have been shipped to Amazon from another store. It had no warranty card in it, which concerned us. It also appeared the box and booklet which describes the machine had been opened.
However the machine itself seemed fully sealed in original wrap. We decided to try and hope for the best. There is a quick start guide, and the Keurig started right up, we let the first couple of cups hot water it dispensed go down the sink. Then using a clean cup, we tried a coffee pod.
The coffee is very good, so is the hot chocolate, so is the tea. The water comes out at 192 degrees (F) which seems hot enough. An LCD with menu controls the defaults, including the default cup size. 
The unit is black and plastic with blue lights. The water reservoir also has blue lights, in the dark with the blue LCD display and blue lights it makes a very attractive display. I tend to think this isn't very energy 
efficient. 
If you can get by on the smallish portions, and the somewhat expensive k-cups, this is a great product. It brews a fresh, very tasty beverage, consistently, quickly, and without any mess. The LCD instructs when to add water to the reservoir and when the unit is ready to brew. 
I'm a bit concerned about durability. However for the past couple of weeks, there has been no problem, and we have been going through more coffee and hot chocolate than ever at about 55 cents a portion. Beware, this is addictive and supplies are not inexpensive.