ID: B000NZQ63M-R2CT1X201C6AVC-A3JNNO7CNKRI9G
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-18-135mm-3-5-5-6G-Zoom-Nikkor
ReviewerID: A3JNNO7CNKRI9G
ReviewerName: W. Mann
Date: January 10, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Value Great Camera
Content:
I have been using the camera for about 3 months now and I am completely satisfied with the results. Being a point and shoot owner previously the step to SLR took a little understanding, but it wasnt anything overly complicated. In fact, I often use the Auto setting and the camera snaps pics just like a PNS, just quicker!! The camera takes extremly clear pictures and my family was very impressed with all the pictures I took over the holidays. If you are a person who likes to crop photos, then I suggest you always keep the file size and format at the highest setting. While this will take up more space and produce larger files, there is almost no loss when cropping pictures. If your really particular about cropping images and plan on retaining the highest quality, then I suggest purchasing the D40x, which is the exact same camera, but the 10.1 MP model. I went with the D40 and spent the extra money on upgrading to the 18-135 lens instead, which is also a practical everyday use lens. I am sort of addicted to taking and developing pictures now that I have this camera. I still have plenty to learn, but I am having fun and gaining an appreciation for my Nikon camera. I almost never miss a shot, and that was one of my biggest complaints with the PNS's.
As far as Amazon goes, you cant go wrong!! I searched over 15 different places to buy this camera (most of them online). I paid 15 dollars more then the lowest price I found online, but I knew who and what I was dealing with when choosing Amazon and so I didnt mind the few extra dollars. Many other online sites try to upsell you accesories and sometimes the tactics get downright nasty. I have never had a bad experience with Amazon and I have bought quite a few large ticket items from here. Save yourself the time and purchase your camera here. Great price, fast and free shipping, and a nice customer service dept if you need them.