ID: B000JO3N3S-R417PIJPXZF2S-A37LMYI6J77I87
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Black-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A37LMYI6J77I87
ReviewerName: John P.
Date: February 7, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Incredible piece of technology!
Content:
I ordered this iPod for my fiance for Christmas through Amazon, who distributed it from J&R Music World.  
First, as usual, Amazon made sure the shipping/billing process was easy and fast.
As for the iPod Nano itself...this thing really is a remarkable piece of equipment.  I had held off on buying one of these, because I felt the exclusion of video was a bad move.  After having bought a Sansa MP3 player last year which did have video, I thought it was better than the 2nd generation Nano...which it was...until it crapped out on us.
Then, the 3rd generation Nano comes out, with video, and I was sold.
The video quality on this is really quite amazing.  For the small size of the Nano itself, the screen is a very nice size, and it's super clear, bright and produces excellent color.  
The audio quality is pretty much what's expected of a portable MP3 player, which is good, but won't blow you away.
The only reason(s) I'm giving this 4 stars instead of 5 is that the Sansa had FM radio and a record option that would record both radio broadcast, as well as using the built-in microphone to record speech, or other sounds.  Why the 3rd generation Nano doesn't include this can only be for one reason...so we buy the 4th or 5th generation Nano.
Pretty lame of Apple to prey on their huge consumer base like this...but other than that, it's a great product, and nobody builds MP3 players with the same quality as Apple.
Just pick the thing up in your hands, and you can tell this is not cheaply made...it just feels nice in the hand.  It's also small enough that you can use if for exercise and never even realize you're wearing it.
Bottom line...if you're going to buy an MP3 player, either as a gift or for yourself, don't try to get cute and think other brands are going to offer a better product for less money.  I found out the hard way that Apple really is the definitive product in the MP3 field.
***UPDATE 5/9/09 ***
Well, as apparenly MANY others have experienced, our iPod has finally crapped out.  Yes...it has DIED.
This is COMPLETE BS...especially from a company like Apple.  The Mac's are supposedly the most stable computers out there, but I honestly cannot say the same for the iPod Nano.
I loved the design of this unit, and now apparently Apple has gone back to the ugly, longer design.  Too bad, but it doesn't matter anyway...I don't know that I'll ever buy another Apple product again.
You pay $200 for a device, and you expect it to last more than one year!
So, a year later, and now my wife doesn't have an MP3 player.
If I could change my rating to ONE STAR, I would.  Amazon should truly let you edit your reviews.
1/5 stars.  Terrible longevity.