ID: B000VJX7DW-R16SCTX2Q9IH60-A1NA28PDNP8HRD
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D300-12-3MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A1NA28PDNP8HRD
ReviewerName: F. Knoph
Date: February 23, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Nikon D300
Content:
I wrote a review of this camera a short time after I bought it, but I would like to update it with my experience from having used it for almost a year.
First of all, the title for my review has not changed. It thought it was a great camera, and I still do. As this is not a detailed review of the camera, I would like to comment on a few things that have struck me while using it.
I'm very satisfied with the metering system. I have taken pictures under challenging lighting conditions, and after having reviewed the picture on the LCD I changed the exposure. However, after downloading the pictures to my computer it turns out that the camera has been right more often then I. Therefore, my trust in the metering system has increased. (I believe this has occurred because the LCD has been hard to view properly in the given lightning conditions, and not because the LCD is bad).
Having 51 auto focus points to choose from can seem a bit excessive, but it's something I really appreciate. Now I can compose the pictures as I like and then choose where the camera should focus, instead of having to re-frame after having focused first. This leads to a more precise focusing. Also, the "intelligent" mode where the camera chooses witch points to focus at is very good. It doesn't work all the time, but more often than not.
Having a high-res LCD is great! You can zoom in closely to check focus, and it is in general great for reviewing your pictures. This is, objectively, one of the very best LCDs on the market.
There are some software issues that could be better. For instance, I would like the auto iso-function to turn off when setting the camera to manual exposure mode. Not a big deal, but a bit annoying.
I also miss a fast way of changing picture controls. An easy way to fix this would be to enable the Fn-button to do it. I hope this will come in a future firmware update.
Why not buy a D300? Well, I think there are two main reasons. The first one is the D90 and the second one is the D700. The D90 has much of the same technology as the D300, but comes at a lower price. You won't get 51 auto focus points or a rock solid magnesium house, but do you need that? The D700 is the D300's big brother. It has a full frame sensor, but apart from that is is very similar to the D300.
Would I buy the D300 today? I'm not sure. Don't get me wrong; I love my camera, but as I'm single and in a good job I would probably go for the D700 instead. And if you have been stup.... if you're married with kids, maybe the cheaper D90 would suit your needs sufficiently.