ID: B000050MN8-REIFJLV75JWBQ-A1YFCP4W6WBZT8
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Camera-Body-Only
ReviewerID: A1YFCP4W6WBZT8
ReviewerName: Richard S. Smith
Date: February 13, 2001
Helpful: 103 of 106
Rating: 5.0
Title: **Great** Camera, especially for current Canon users...
Content:
All of the nice things you're hearing about this camera are true.  If you already own a camera in the Canon EOS line and are ready to upgrade to digital, this is the path you want to take.  It has all the features a sophisticated amateur wants, plus a healthy serving of &quot;professional&quot; features thrown in.  And as others have said, all the lenses and most (not all) of the accessories you already have will work with the D30.There are a few drawbacks, however... For one thing the autofocus relies on an incandescent lamp rather than the infrared found in nearly all other EOS models.  This is a curious choice on Canon's part, it almost seems like they didn't throw in professional-quality autofocus for marketing reasons, since there's a true pro-level Canon digital SLR due out later this year.Another drawback is that the included software, called ZoomBrowser EX, is not that great.  It's designed to help you capture, download, and catalog your digital images, but it runs out of steam once your image library grows to a non-trivial size, and if you want to merge databases because you've done collection on another computer, the software more-or-less becomes unusable.Also, you end up paying a lot more than $3000, even if you already have the lenses from your other Canon EOS camera.  First comes the Compact Flash cards (you really need to get at least two of these so you always have a spare).  Figure on getting at least two 128MB CF cards, if you really must have a microdrive that will cost you more.  Plan on getting an extra battery too.   Then there are the Canon accessories, like a better (infrared) autofocus lamp, an electronic timer for long exposures and intervalometer work (which the included remote-capture software does not do well), and you get the idea...  you really have to budget $4000.Having said all that, this camera really is a joy to use, and once you get used to the instant feedback, your shooting skills will improve, and you'll start getting compliments on how good you are.  It really *is* that *good* of a camera.  Just be warned that you are jumping into the deep end of digital photography if you get this camera.  ... ;-).