ID: B00006F2MI-ROX3946OKD9XF-ARQYDJB38ZE20
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Grind-Brushed-Chrome
ReviewerID: ARQYDJB38ZE20
ReviewerName: Natter
Date: June 30, 2007
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 3.0
Title: Moving Parts as Downfall
Content:
When I received this coffee maker as a birthday present last year, I was thrilled.  Aside from the sweet looks, it brewed an exceptionally good cup of coffee.  The coffee was always hot (especially with pretreating the carafe with hot water), and the thermal design retains heat remarkably well (sometimes up to 6 hours, steaming).  The coffee brews quickly -- much faster than my Melitta -- and the grinder handles oily and drier beans well, although clean-up of the grinder sometimes takes longer than I would like.
After a year of heavy use (2-3 pots/day), I can report the following: 
The swinging basket, while originally a pretty cool idea, breaks down--typically in the middle of a brew cycle when you're not standing there.  My neighbors had the identical model, and theirs died, but all I could get out of them was that there was "a huge mess," and I couldn't figure out how this could have happened.  Until it happened to me, that is.  One day, the  filter basket opened in mid-brew, and dumped grinds and coffee all over the floor.  This happened four more times before I realized that the "door" was no longer catching firmly (it seemed to, until a gentle tug sprung it); however, it only opened during brewing cycles, which meant that I now had to stand by the maker during the entire cycle, poised to slam the door shut if it popped open.  I took the filter basket apart and replaced the spring, but the internal components--all plastic moving components--have simply taken a beating over time.  Last week, the filter door would no longer stay shut, and the model was unceremoniously junked.  
I am a bit jealous of those whose models have lasted longer than mine did, because the coffee was so good.  In fact, I've got my Melitta Mill & Brew (which makes a good cup of coffee but doesn't keep the coffee warm) back in operation, but kept the Cuisinart's carafe to use as a coffee server so that my joe will always be warm (it really is an ingenious design). 
I am convinced that had the Grind and Brew not had the swinging filter door, it would still perform marvelously, but form over function crippled this once-beautiful little pot.