ID: B000VRJC5Q-R1XQIBH5ELBFEC-AVYX91KLVXXV
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Sony-12-24MP-Digital-18-70mm-Aspherical
ReviewerID: AVYX91KLVXXV
ReviewerName: David A. Mcclelland
Date: December 25, 2007
Helpful: 24 of 24
Rating: 5.0
Title: Not a Sony Fan...Until Now!!!
Content:
Sony Alpha A700 12.24MP Digital SLR Camera (Body Only)
Sony Alpha A700 12.24MP Digital SLR Camera with 18-70mm f/3.5-5.6 Aspherical ED Lens
Some people are die-hard Sony fans...anything they purchase has to be a Sony. I don't fit into that catagory. In fact, when I was setting up my home theatre, I didn't even consider Sony. I could go as far as saying I really hate sony...proprietory memory cards and over priced products to name a few of my dislikes. 
When I started searching for my first DSLR, I started at [...]. I have always found their site to be unbiased and not company sponsered. I noticed while there that the top picks included the A700. I Reluctantly read their review and then proceded to do more on-line research about this camera. 
Having not owned a DSLR before, I was able to look at a lot of cameras without a specific brand(some folks already have lens so they tend to be brand specific). After lots of research, I ended up back at the Sony. I seriously considered the Nikon D300 but I found that for an extra $500, the Sony was the best buy for me. It doesn't have quite as many pro features but it was a lot of camera for less money. If you google a700 vs. D300 you will find people who have shot identical photos with both cameras and they post the results side by side. The honest truth is that in many of these samples, the D300 shoots a slightly crisper, sharper picture but not even close to $500 worth. Also, in my reading, a few sites have suggested that Sony is acually producing the sensor for both cameras just slight tweaked for the Nikon. I can't confirm that for sure but it was said by some reliable photography websites. 
I picked up the A700, which I should mention was a replacement for my Minolta Dimage 5 purchased in 2001. Obviously we are talking totally different leagues if you know that camera at all (it was a digital camera with an LCD viewfinder simulating an SLR but not truely an Single Lens Reflex). I spent the extra cash and bought the SAL1680Z Carl Zeiss® Vario-Sonnar® T* DT 16-80mm F3.5-4.5 ZA Lens. I had a chance at Henry's Camera store to try out the different lens and upload samples to their computer and the Carl Zeiss lens produced a more accurate picture, particularly in the whites and light grays. Also the edge detail of items was cleaner. For the card, I bought a LEXAR 4GB UDMA 300x card which is the new highspeed format writing at 45 meg per sec. This card is fast and the camera fully supports it. I should note that if you tend not to use the camera to upload to the computer, you have to have a special UDMA compactflash card reader to enjoy the full benefits of a highspeed card. 
My photography background is self taught, stictly a hobbiest and non-professional. My goal for this camera is to take some courses (staring in January) and learn how to operate a camera in more that just "Auto". Out of the box, I have to say that this is truely a camera that can be used by an amateur photographer like myself and obtain amazing results. The pictures in daylight are superb with crisp, sharp images and astounding colour accuracy. With my old camera, the challenge was taking night or reduced light shots. The image stabilization in this camera is amazing. I can actually take zoom shots at night, with no tripod with clarity and depth. The other thing that I really, really appreciate with this camera is the size and amazing detail of the LCD screen. I remember with my old camera, going to Chicago to Navy Pier on a beautiful night waiting for the fireworks. During that wait, we took some beautiful shots of the sunset, the city at night and the fireworks...but we didn't have a tripod. Pictures looked great on the tiny little low resolutiuon 1.5" screen...but then we uploaded them to the computer, what a disappointment...only a small handfull turned out. The Sony A700 makes this problem history. To me, it makes a lot of sense to have the stabilization on board the camera rather than have to "buy" it with each lens or compensating by always lugging a tripod. Even if there is a slight blur in a photo, the high quality LCD lets you see the picture is not clear and it allows you to reshoot. 
The manual that came with this camera was actually really good. Some manuals are nightmares but not this one. It not only goes over the description, it shows comparison samples of different settings. The on-screen menu on the LCD is easy to navigate but many common features of the menu can also be accessed by buttons on the top of the camera (Drive, white balance etc.) Even the pre-set features like "Vivid", "Portrait" and "Night" perform extremely well. My last camera didn't always perform well with these settings. 
D-Range is another really neat feature. This is a setting that allows the camera to adjust to those photos where a dark object is in front of a light background. Like a person standing in front of a window on a sunny day. It can be set to auto adjust or by manual increments. I took a photo the other day of a home decor item hanging in the window. With d-range turned off, the item and the wall around the window was too dark to make out. Turn it on to auto and the item was more visible while still maintaining the detail of the trees in the background of the window. Then by tweaking the setting in manual D-Range, the item hanging in the window was perfectly focused while the highlights of the exterior were still visible with a subtle blur. 
The battery life is not as long as some of its competitors, rated at 650 shots per full charge based on a mix of flash and non-flash use. What is really great is that the battery tells you exactly how much charge is left in percentage value. 
Something that was included that I really like is the remote control. Yesterday our family got together for Christmas and for the first time in many years, we were able to get a family shot with everyone together. Usually for us the camera person is missing. Also, my wife and I like to take trips to areas where we can go hiking. We have lots of photos of nature and lots of photos with one of us but now we will have shots with both of us. The remote can also control the camera's slide show if hooked to a tv. While on the topic of TV's the HDMI output to HDTV is available (I haven't bought the cable yet). If you are shooting photos for tv use only, the camera can be set to take in wide screen format which is nice for certain applications.
As mentioned, I am taking a part-time course at our community college. I am looking forward to discovering the full potential of this camera. Based on reviews I have read and my limited experience thus far, the A700 has put Sony as a worthy competitor in the Advanced Amateur/Semi-Pro catagory. It is also nice to see Sony cameras with CompactFlash slots which are cheaper to buy and just plain faster.