ID: B0001K5GOE-R3QATPT32CL0H1-A2M9GIR4CKZPV7
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dyson-DC-11-Telescope-Canister
ReviewerID: A2M9GIR4CKZPV7
ReviewerName: E. Balch
Date: March 5, 2005
Helpful: 65 of 66
Rating: 5.0
Title: I like it!!!
Content:
I was intrigued by the split among the reviewers of the Dyson DC 11.  I carefully read the reviews, took note of  what appeared to be the common problems  and then evaluated  it in person before making the purchase.  As vacuums go, this is relatively expensive so I didn't want to deal with any unpleasant surprises.  I don't mind spending money but I sure do hate to waste it!
Let me begin with the common complaints:
1) the power cord is awfully short.
The sales material clearly states the cord is 21.7 feet long.  The vacuum and telescoping wand add about five feet to that.  It seems adequate to me but others will have to make their own judgment.   
2) the air driven brush on the floor tool may turn off unexpectedly.
I haven`t yet experienced that problem, but if you do just pull the air release trigger on the wand and it will come back on.  There is no need as stated by others to turn the machine off to reset. 
3) The power on/off button and the power cord rewind are the same color and shape.
Put a small red "stick on" dot on the power switch and the problem will go away.  If Dyson reads these reviews they should at least make them different colors. 
4) The wand collapses unexpectedly.
Pull each section until you hear an audible "click" and it will not collapse.  It takes a little extra energy to do that.
5) The beater will not handle carpet with a heavy pile.
That is probably true.  I have wood floor and area rugs so it works fine on those.  The beater brushes are removable for those of you with oriental or wool rugs where the beating action might do damage.
My own take is as follows:
1) Build quality
In a word--fabulous.  It assembles and disassembles very easily.  The canisters even come apart so you can rinse/wash them if you like.  It seems solid and well made.
2) Suction
I thoroughly vacuumed a high traffic short pile area rug with my old vacuum and then with the Dyson.  I was actually stunned at the amount of dirt it took out of the rug.  A  definite A+ here.
3) Functionality
Everything works as advertised.  The noise level is average, the hose could be a bit longer and it's a minor wrestling match to wrap the hose around it for storage.
4) Price
It's a little on the expensive side.  I purchased at Bed, Bath and Beyond and they allowed me to use a 20% off coupon even though the coupon excluded Dyson.  It never hurts to ask!!
The bottom line is that this is a fabulous vacuum for an apartment or small to average size house (1500-1800 sq ft) with a mixture of floor types.  If I had lots of wall to wall carpet an upright would be a much better choice.  I'd rate it a solid buy.  I'll update this review if anything changes.