ID: B000V5QV4S-R2FMZYQ4S4LYH7-A1AAP40S74NNZU
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-40D-Digital-28-135mm-Standard
ReviewerID: A1AAP40S74NNZU
ReviewerName: GoldHorde "goldhorde"
Date: December 15, 2007
Helpful: 3 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Canon 40D w/EF 28-135 IS USM lens
Content:
Canon 40D dSLR
PROS: Too obvious and numerous if you are upgrading from an older dSLR or from 35mm film technology. 
CONS: a) Size b) Live View is problematic (other reviewers have noted this as well)
SIZE: Too big in size for consumers and for outdoor or travel use. This is a BIG camera - much larger than the XT or XTi. I like big because I have big hands and size doesn't come into play in a studio setting - unless maybe you are shoooting live moving models. Buy the XTi instead if you were/are used to the smaller size of a Canon AE-1 film camera. 
LIVE VIEW: My understanding is that the LiveView feature "heats up" the CMOS and thereby introduces noise into the shot. That issue detracts from the intended use of LiveView in Product Photography under hot lights while LiveView-ing on an LCD monitor - if anyone has other experience - please let me know. We are still getting familiar with the camera but we have put it through quite a few operational paces directly related to our business use. 
LOW LIGHT: We've yet to get it in the field for night photography tests but that is not an operational field for use for us - more at my hobby and art - but the blacks in our product photography are noiseless - unlike our Olympus C2500L. 
INTENDED USE: My purchase of this camera is strictly for the part of my business involved directly in a) Product Photography and b) Giclee printing. It fits into our workflow perfectly with Adobe CS2-3 and we won't be lookng back - we're glad to dump the film camera. My previous camera was an 35mm AE-1 Program film camera which is the same size as the Canon XT and newer XTi dSLR's. My other dSLR is an 8 year old Olympus C2500L which is about 2/3rds the size of an AE-1 and continues to be a fantastic digital workhorse camera for product shots intended for online catalogues or small image catalogues. 
LENS: The standard Canon EOS Kit lenses are generally various stages of horrible EXCEPT for the EF 28-135 IS USM Standard Zoom lens. This lens has decent reviews and it is a perfect walkaround (outdoor) lens - I was rather surprised to see that it had a 72mmm filter thread. One should consider getting that lens for the smaller XT or XTi models as the 40D isn't what I would call a walkaround camera body. A professional acquaintence uses the XT for outdor model photography, backpacking and city shoots and they are perfectly sized for such assignments. Most outdoor duty really only requires a consumer point and shoot model anyway.
We can't help but be impressed and thrilled with the Canon 40D - unless the dreaded Canon "ERROR-99" should rear its ugly head (check forums on other EOS models). Oh, I should mention - 1) Only shoot in high-end RAW and 2) any dSLR capable of large RAW shots MUST be paired with a FAST (60x or better) flash memory if you intend to do ANY burst shooting.
Good shooting!