ID: B000EP4TWQ-R3SU0S56MA9R9K-AQDQVC3SBCOA3
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Silver-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: AQDQVC3SBCOA3
ReviewerName: T. S. Marcopolus
Date: May 11, 2007
Helpful: 6 of 14
Rating: 2.0
Title: Don't...
Content:
Don't buy the iPod Nano. Why?
The iPod's not the only music player you can get, 
It's just that there are MP3 players people have not met. 
If they just knew what the other players had in store for them, 
They'd know the iPod stinks so bad it came from a pig's pen. 
The iPods soar to the top of the list of MP3 players like kites, 
But why not get a better player with more gigabytes? 
Sandisk and Creative have some pretty decent devices, 
Yet people cling to iPods even with their retarded prices. 
The Sandisk Sansa E200 has many, many things, 
An FM radio, recording, and movies make it the king of kings. 
Does the iPod Nano have this stuff? No, it does not! 
The Nano lacking all these features is definitely its weak spot. 
The Creative Zen Micro Photo also kills the Nano for an amazing deal, 
It has so much more for so much less that it's basically unreal. 
Radio, recording, and replaceable battery make it a better player, 
For less than the Nano...are you kidding? It's definitely a Nano slayer. 
There's a player that blows the iPod Shuffle into outer space, 
It's called the Samsung YP-U2 and it definitely earns its place. 
FM tuner, voice recorder, and screen make it a great buy, 
The fact that the Shuffle doesn't have these things should make Steve Jobs cry. 
The Creative Zen Vision: M is better than the Ipod Video, 
Better screen, more features, and better value make it glow. 
The fact that the Vision: M is thicker doesn't really matter, 
The features are what make the Vision: M unimportantly fatter. 
So you see, my friends, the iPod is a waste of precious time, 
The fact that Apple cheats you out is basically a crime. 
They make their iPods fragile just to make them really "cool", 
Anyone who buys one is just a ridiculous crazy fool. 
...that's why.