ID: B000GTR2F6-RS2X3ZQ1B3KWP-AF7ZKHWJ7Y6LM
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Platinum-Single-Cup-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: AF7ZKHWJ7Y6LM
ReviewerName: smilingmomof7
Date: August 1, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Keurig has done it again!!
Content:
For the last 4 years I have been using the Keurig B50 to make my yummy coffee.  I decided to sell it (after 3 plus years and still in great working order) and upgrade to the new B76 (yes it says B70 on the box, check the serial number for the real model code).  It is absolutely amazing!  It has 5 brew sizes, so fits all our family's needs for brewing.  The water pump is practically silent!  It draws in water, and there is little to NO vibration even.  My husband made a cup of coffee with it and after a minute we both turned around and wondered if the machine had even done anything.  He pressed brew, went back to getting ready for work, and VOILA!  A great (and silently performed) brewed cup of coffee in his travel mug.  No more lifting the handle and brewing some more to fill his cup.
I've looked at almost all of the reviews on amazon just to see what others have said.  First of all, if your coffee is watery, you either have a defective machine, or you are used to a stronger more acidic cup of coffee from your old brewer and you're running too much water through a light roast.  You do have to use the right intensity for your tastes.  With so many choices though, it's hard for me to believe that you wouldn't be able to find "just the cup".
Furthermore, Keurig, like any other company, is not infallible.  Sometimes things break in transit, or production even.  Get over it.  Return it and they'll make it right.  I've never had anything but pleasant help from them.  One person here left a review stating that for $200 the machine should easily last over 5 years....while that would be nice, it's not reasonable.  Over 5 years, I had paid more than $200 for "pot stlye" brewers that always malfunctioned before a year of age, and the coffee they produced was horrible.  By his math, a $1200 refrigerator should function flawlessly for what....30 years? :)
The keurig brewer is not for everyone, but it should be.  Give it a chance.  Also with a 20% discount from BB and Beyond, it's not over $140 for a purchase price not including tax.