ID: B0000C8VU8-RAFXE79VJ18MT-A12TECTYSRJ3UR
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-6-3MP-Digital-Rebel-Camera
ReviewerID: A12TECTYSRJ3UR
ReviewerName: windriver12
Date: December 10, 2005
Helpful: 31 of 52
Rating: 2.0
Title: Not bad for first time DSLR buyers but seriously lacking in several areas
Content:
I have had this camera since Jan '05 and have so far taken approximately 10,000 shots while on trips and at weddings. 
Don't expect much from it and you will be happy. As an entry level DSLR it does what it's supposed to do in ideal conditions. I find it's strength is in taking people photographs in bright light, provided that they are not moving. 
Cons:
In landscape photography this camera is lacking - both due to inadequate megapixels and it's inability to capture the natural blues and greens very well.
Battery dies FAST. The battery I got with it hardly lasts a whole day of shooting, especially when shooting in RAW mode. I have yet to fill up a 1Gig card when shooting in RAW mode(Approx 150 shots) before the battery dies. Surprisingly when shooting jpegs, I get more shots per charge(Over 300) but hardly enough to last a day. I cannot tell you the number of times the battery has died on me while I was out on a hike. So I always carry a backup film camera (my trusty Elan 7).
The viewfinder is very dim. When I look through my Elan 7 and then through the 300D, it is painfully obvious how dark the image is through the 300D's viewfinder. In indoor situations with low light this becomes a handicap, especially when having to resort to manual focus. 
Autofocus in low light for the 300d is terrible. When shooting indoors, the autofocus hunts and ends up focusing on something behind your intended subject. I have lots of beautiful photos of walls and sconces in the background in sharp focus while the people standing in front in the middle of the frame are an out of focus blur. This is despite having a 420Ex Flash on my camera that uses an infrared beam to assist with the focus.
The 420EX flash is supposed to "talk" to the camera and adjust the power in order to ensure the subjects are not over or under exposed. However, with the 300d, this is a crap shoot at best and many of my indoor shots are over/under exposed. 
After about five months, the shutter button started sticking. I would click it and then it would remain depressed. The shutter button would only pop back up after I jiggled it a little.
Another annoying thing about the camera is that the settings are displayed on the rear of the camera and not on the top beside the shutter button. And since there is only one thumbwheel, it is not easy to change aperature and shutter speed. For example, if you use the thumbwheel to change the aperature, then to change the shutter speed you would have to press another button while at the same time turning the thumbwheel. When you take thousands of shots over the life of the camera, this is a real annoyance.
So would I recommend this camera:
If you are a casual point and shoot person, it's an affordable entry into DSLRs that produces decent photos. But if you plan on shooting a lot indoors or want to take landscape photographs that can actually convey the colors accurately, look elsewhere.