ID: B00012FVZ6-R2HGY8KCGJ3L3Q-A2Z1K2I2EYSKFA
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D2H-Digital-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A2Z1K2I2EYSKFA
ReviewerName: FrontPage
Date: February 5, 2005
Helpful: 33 of 33
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent gear
Content:
I have been working for a major daily newspaper in Baltimore for 2 decades. Perhaps that will qualify me as an expert in photography. I have been shooting digital imagery since the late 1990s. Maybe that qualifies me as an expert in digital photography. This may be long- winded, but it's extensive and can be useful. 
 
 I received the Nikon D2H camera -- 2 bodies total -- over one year ago. I think I got them shortly after the D2H system was released in 2003. Since then, I have used them to shoot images of all types -- documentary, sports, daytime, available light, flash, and dead- of- night -- for the paper I work for. This is the only camera I work with. 
 
 First, please read the manual. There is a ton of information there, and the information is terrific to begin with. The D2H is highly- configurable, with screen after screen that you can set for your own specific use (resist lending the camera to anyone for a long period of time, for your camera may be returned with many of your settings changed so much that it acts like a thoroughly different camera). 
 
 I'll just punch right in to the way it feels. The camera is a rather heavy beast, and for some, there can be an amount of shoulder or neck fatigue when using it for hours per day, like I do. But the camera feels well in hand and the controls are easy to move through. I've long since given up using any camera bag. All I have are a fanny pack for a 14mm, 55mm, teleconverters and 2 extra camera batteries and flashes clipped to its belt. And the D2H's hold the 17-35mm Nikon and the 80-200mm Nikon one- touch or the Sigma 120-300mm 2- touch. 
 
 Shooting is a breeze. The batteries let you shoot long before the need to recharge. I have my D2H set on ISO 200 or 400 most of the time and sacrifice shutter speed for lower ISO as often as I can, because the higher ISOs bring digital noise and a loss in color saturation. Just today, I purchased digital noise plug ins for Photoshop to limit this, and that's a wonderful thing to invest in with this camera when you must shoot action photography with no flash at ISO 800 and above. 
 
 I now have little problems with capturing images in even barely- limited lighting. I recently shot stars and a plane wing from my seat of an Airbus at 36,000 feet over the Pacific at 30 seconds wide open @ f/ 2.8, and it looks tons better than night shots via the D1H, which lacked the internal digital noise filter. That filter kicks in at around 1/2 second and longer exposures, and can make you wait as long as your image you've shot to strip your long exposure of much of the digital noise. When you shoot this way (and in general), don't simply react by cranking up ISO because you will not be happy with your results. 
 
 The camera can be loud. At over 7 frames per second, it can make you obvious in a quiet room. Shooting sensitive situations can be testy, so limit your shooting to single frames. I wish this camera had an option to silence this camera, but since the mirror has to raise and lower, there's no chance to do this. 
 
 Am I happy with the D2H? Definitely, yes. Are there improvements that can be made? Yes. But the benefits outweigh the drawbacks. People have been bailing out of using the Nikon system and going Canon, which has some incredible gear, I won't deny that. But instead of simply giving up on your system of equipment, learn how to use the D2H well and you'll be much happier than ever. And that means you should push its qualities to the max while respecting its limitations. 
 
 For instance, white balance. This can be the best thing for you, or the worst thing you've ever dealt with, depending upon how you approach it. Daylight, grey skies, dusk and dawn are easy, because you can set the camera to daylight, flash, shadow (for dusk and dawn times) and even the fluorescent and incandescent tend to be right in the ballpark. But the horrible mixed light or the street lamps that glow blue/green or orange- red from mercury vapor can be the death of an image if you don't properly use white balance. Preset white balance is king, here. I can get grey, black and white when I preset in mercury vapor light. And I used the preset for any light that the auto white balance setting can't figure. There is also a setting to dial in kelvin temps as well! If you do this (and I can go on for miles here), you're on your way. So, with trying this D2H, or considering it, read through some of the digital D2H forums and ignore the posts that slam the camera without giving instances. Generally, those who pan the camera have not tried to understand it. I can bang off images to disprove where they suggest this camera will fail. When you have decent light, you'll have a decent image. But when you try to use it without learning how you can maximize the system, you will come about shooting images that are terrible and unprintable. 
 
 In closing, I have not been paid by anyone, I have no Nikon stock and have no outside interest in writing this except that I'm giving the D2H credit where it's long overdue.