ID: B000GTR2F6-RLXAK0IYA0UW1-A2ZKZS8OCCYOB
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Platinum-Single-Cup-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: A2ZKZS8OCCYOB
ReviewerName: Reese Boyd III
Date: January 29, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 4
Rating: 1.0
Title: A TOTAL WASTE OF MONEY -- Worse than that, in fact!
Content:
WOE BE UNTO YOU WHO CLICK 'ADD TO CART' or 'PURCHASE WITH ONE-CLICK' -- THERE IS ONLY PAIN AND AGONY HERE.....
I would say that this item is a total waste of money, but that really fails to capture the magnitude of the hatred I have for this device.  We bought one of these after having a cup of coffee at our car dealer while waiting for service, and much to my surprise, we had found the coffee tasted pretty good.  So with an eye toward more convenience, less prep time in the morning, and less clean-up over all, we bought one of these "things" through Amazon -- note that I refuse to call it a "coffee maker" since - despite the tags on this review - it is CERTAINLY not THAT.
For starters, the K-Cups are great, in terms of ease of use, but every cup of coffee our machine ever made from them tasted just like plastic.  After several weeks of trying many different varieties and brands, we gave up, and bought the wire mesh K-cup filter and went back to grinding our own coffee by hand.  (To add insult to injury, by the way, our old coffee maker, which made GREAT coffee, had had the grinder built in, so I had to go out and spend $[...] MORE bucks on a coffee grinder to go with this thing!)  What they don't tell you, however, is that if you go that route, and sooner or later you will unless you like drinking molten plastic, then this thing is MORE TROUBLE and MORE MESS that the $[...] Mr. Coffee that's probably sitting on your counter right now.
So making our own "K-Cups" fixed the problem, right?  Hardly!  After months of fiddling with the thing, trying different coffees, different grind settings, washing it out with vinegar per the mfr instructions many, many times, and doing everything else we could think of, we gave up.  The "clincher" was when the flow dropped off and we couldn't get it to come back even though we cleaned it several times.  You had to run the unit TWICE to get ONE cup of coffee.  We had had enough.  Finally my wife said, "throw that thing away!"
Oh, how I had been waiting for those words....  Sentence pronounced, justice came swiftly for the K-Monster.  I was the Executioner.  What I did to that machine that morning cannot be spoken of, as I suspect it is probably illegal in several states.  Suffice it to say that one of the happier moments of 2010 thus far was when I dumped what remained of the Keurig thing into the Herbie Curbie and walked away.
Ultimately, after many many MONTHS of owning the K-Monster, and investing HOURS in cleaning, adjusting and tweaking it, I never ever got ONE SINGLE CUP OF COFFEE out of the thing that I thought was worth drinking or that I would have been proud to serve to a guest in my home.  I can only laugh when I see people write that this thing brews an "excellent" cup of coffee.
Save yourself a lot of time, a lot of trouble, (not to mention $[...] bucks or so after you buy a box of K-Cups), plus, and most importantly, a lot of grumpy mornings because - trust me - you'll be walking out of the house with a mug full of lukewarm coffee-tinged liquid that looks like pond water and which purports to pass itself of as as an "excellent cup of coffee", and you will be angry -- very angry! -- until you can swing through a Starbucks or Dunkin drive-thru to get a decent cup of real coffee...  
There are many coffee makers out there for one-half, a third, a quarter the price of this thing, or even $[...] or less, that actually make real coffee -- and far superior to what you will get from the K-Monster thing.  Save yourselves the agony.  Run the other way!