ID: B0002ZAILY-RSV42JJXOP75V-A11FXTMJJCY65D
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-shuffle-White-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A11FXTMJJCY65D
ReviewerName: Carrie Frederick
Date: January 5, 2006
Helpful: 11 of 11
Rating: 4.0
Title: Convienent
Content:
I received my shuffle as a Christmas gift and have used it constantly ever since. 
The PROS:
1. Easy to use: The controls are intuitive and well-designed
 
2. Battery life: I have heard and read general complaints of ipods having poor battery life. The shuffle (and Nano) utilize solid state memory, which apparently uses less battery life than other ipods. I dock mine about every 2-3 nights, and haven't had any problems with the battery when I'm out.
3. Small & Lightweight: This thing weighs almost nothing. If you throw it around your neck with the lanyard you don't even notice it's there. If that's too geeky for you, you can "hold" the buttons and slip it into a pocket without worrying about accidently bumping anything.
The CONS:
1. Memory: The biggest problem I've had is the memory. It's a 512MB flash drive. The playlist I have loaded currently is only ~400MB (104 songs), but my ipod said it was full and wouldn't allow me to load anything else. 
2. Battery display: There is a small indicator light on the back. You click it to see either green (charged) or orange (low) light - but you don't know how much longer the battery is good for. Like I said above, I haven't had battery issues, but if I had a long commute or something I would like to have a better idea of how much battery remains.
OTHER STUFF
Price: I think the price of the shuffle is resonable for (another) a quality Apple product. You can purchase similar players for about the same price that include display, FM radio, etc. so some people think the shuffle is priced a little high.
Display: I also hear complaints about the lack of display, but I just like to turn on "shuffle" and go (you can play stuff in order if you want) - so that wasn't an issue for me. 
Software: I expect to get a "big" ipod in another year or two, and I like the idea I can integrate what I'm already using (itunes) with another ipod and not have to install more software, re-download songs, etc.
Accessories: There aren't too many accessories for the shuffle model, but what's available is actually designed to be useful. There are armbands, sports cases, speakers, etc. 
I love having so much music so readily available, and in such a compact form.