ID: B000KJQ1DG-R11HPE50AXGH1P-AIAT4UQM6AS8G
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G-Zoom-Nikkor
ReviewerID: AIAT4UQM6AS8G
ReviewerName: Twain Steinbeck "flynbike"
Date: January 7, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Does everything it's supposed to, and admirably well
Content:
After a bit of deliberation - and some exposure to a friend's D70 - I took the plunge for the D40. As a basic platform for any likely kind of consumer level photography it's among the best. It's quick to power up, the viewfinder is bright and informative, and the LCD is big and tack sharp. With its intuitive features and menus I'm as completely happy with it as I've been with the 25+ years I've had my Olympus OM series film cameras.
Out of the box the 18-55mm lens is a match for point and shoot portraits, landscapes, outdoor candids and close range sports events. Quiet and quick to focus, light and compact, you won't miss the VR feature handy on longer lenses.
Don't be put off by the "low" pixel count. Unless you are planning on large format prints, images taken at the normal setting are more than sharp enough for desktop images or print sizes to 8 x 10 and beyond.
Reasonably priced and feature rich cameras like this are the "gateway drug" of the DSLR world, and as such are terrific values designed for ease of use. Once hooked on the D40 you'll find yourself shopping for those "just right" lenses or accessories - or even an upgrade - which is what Nikon had in mind anyway. Stands to reason they'd do their best work to make sure the hook is well set, and this slick little DSLR does just that. I might add that despite taking a couple hundred pics since getting the thing, I haven't yet had to recharge the battery.
Two caveats - if you are used to composing in the LCD with your current point and shoot, keep in mind that this camera doesn't. Olympus' LiveView and similar implementations on higher-end Nikons and Canons will, if that's critical for you. And there is a dizzying array of lenses available for these; it's handy to have a friend who will let you try before you buy.
If you're looking at this as a solid entry level DSLR, take the plunge!