ID: B0001H6DMQ-R1A7O6KBWC03GV-A299U6O8KOB7B
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3755-Bagless-WindTunnel-Canister
ReviewerID: A299U6O8KOB7B
ReviewerName: D. Fletcher "www.mewood.com"
Date: December 19, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: This little jewel rates a 10!!!
Content:
We purchased our Hoover wind tunnel vacuum about two years ago when we needed something compact enough to carry around in our class 'C' motor home. We were happy with the size and thrilled with the way this little jewel performed. The telescopic wand made it perfect for storing in one of our limited closet spaces and the adjustable power selections on the suction intake make it ideal for many various cleaning tasks.
We found another reason to rave about this little vacuum as well. We live in Maine and about a year ago we had a wood pellet insert stove installed in our home. For those of you who don't know, there's a lot of fly ash and soot that builds up in and around the fire box and baffles and they have to be thoroughly cleaned every 8-10 days to keep them working efficiently. What I do is shut down the stove, empty the ash pan, and wait for it to cool down for a couple of hours. Then I attach a small flexible shop vac hose to the end of the regular Hoover hose and I proceed to thoroughly clean the entire stove.  As soon as I am done I take the canister out of the vacuum, dump the contents into an ash can, and then I proceed to thoroughly wash the canister and filter with warm soapy water. This procedure allows me to get the stove back up and running in very short order.  I wouldn't dare take a chance of cleaning the stove with a regular vacuum cleaner unless the stove had been idle for hours and I was completely confident there was no chance of a hot ember igniting a fire within the vacuums filter or canister.  Where this unit is bagless, easily disassembled and cleaned with water, I find it to be a safe and simple tool to use for this purpose.  We've washed the filter somewhere in the vicinity of 20-25 times now and it appears as good, and works as good, as the day we bought it!
Oh, by the way, we stepped up to a class 'A' motor home this past summer with plenty of interior and undercarriage storage but I can assure you we have no intentions of upgrading our Hoover!