ID: B000EP35US-R2R9ERH3Y3RLAN-A1J93EGDYK0IWA
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Silver-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A1J93EGDYK0IWA
ReviewerName: Patrick D. Goonan "www.meaningful-life.us"
Date: January 5, 2007
Helpful: 10 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: Perfect size, lots of capacity
Content:
I own a 2 GIG iPod nano and bought two of the 4 GB nanos for Christmas gifts.  Obviously, I'm a satisfied customer and I particularly like that these units are not too large or too small.  This can be an issue when you are handling them and result in dropping them or not having something that fits comfortably in your pockets.
I use my iPod while commutting with the TransPod unit.  This is a nice combination and I was so impressed I wrote a review about that too.  In fact, this unit was even better than a direct connection via the tape cassette player, but I don't understand why.
I also have a docking station for my iPod and my girlfriend has the Logitech 50mm speaker system.  This speaker system works very well with her 4 GIG Nano and it's at a great price point.  I use my docking station to connect to my Denon stero.  This works well for newer albums, but I can hear the limitations inherent to this technology on some of my albums.
I'm a musician and quite fussy about sound quality.  I listen to all varieties of music including classical, jazz, rock and vocals.  I didn't expect a lot from iPod technology, but I've found that this unit is a great value with good sound quality for the applications I mentioned above.
I wouldn't hesitate to purchase an iPod again and I particularly like that this one is large enough to put together lots of custom playlists for many settings.  This is useful because I can use these in my car, at home or in other places where I don't want to fuss with the menu systems.  This ability is also comes in handy for parties and romantic evenings.  This is not unique to the iPod, but if you are new to this technology it's definitely an advantage over a CD player.