ID: B00005LEXJ-R1H7FH9LD2PTXG-AC5HGO5ZJFJJ0
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Mr-Heater-Single-Tank-Top-Propane
ReviewerID: AC5HGO5ZJFJJ0
ReviewerName: Mr. K
Date: October 29, 2006
Helpful: 27 of 28
Rating: 5.0
Title: Lotta Heat, Great for Decks
Content:
I live in the South, and in November each year I like to build a temporary enclosure for my deck. Last year I tried to rely on a firepit and electric heater for warmth--big mistake. This year I have the Mr. Heater--big bonus.
I've owned and operated the Mr. Heater for a few days now, and I can tell you that it &lt;u>really&lt;/u> puts out the heat. If you're used to plug-in heaters you buy at Wal-Mart, you'll be blown away by the heat this thing puts out.  8,000 BTU's is incredible (that's the lowest setting). There just isn't anything comparable in its class.
I've never used propane before, so I was hesitant (there's just something about all that compressed lethel gas that gives me pause).  But, it has been easy.
1. Buy the Mr. Heater and READ the manuel.
2. Go to Home Depot, Lowes, etc. and purchase a 20lb. propane tank. At the time of this writing, it costs about $48 for a filled tank (since you're a first-time buyer).
3. There's a threaded pipe part of the Mr. Heater that you press into the companion pipe on the propane tank; twist the nut on the Mr. Heater into the propane tank. Use a wrench to tighten.
4. On the propane tank is a faucet-like handle that you turn to open the gas flow. 
5. Turn the Mr. Heater nob to the Medium dot.
6. Press in the Ignition.
** I recommend checking for leaks by using some soapy water. Please do this--only takes a minute. **
7. Use a match or candle lighter placed with a flame where it says.
8. It will immediately ignite; hold in the ignition for up to 30 seconds and release.
Voila.  You've got instant heat--and it's instant!  To turn off, just turn the Mr. Heater nob back to Off.  Also, very important, it's a good idea to "close" the gas flow from the propane tank, so just turn that faucet to the closed position.
Refills are currently about $17. Just take the tank in, and at Home Depot, the used propane tank is swapped out for one that's already filled.
It's that easy! As one reviewer noted, it's not completely silent. There is a low hiss (from the propane release), but it hasn't bothered me at all. An excellent heater.