ID: B000NO5PZI-R115VVH9AE70HB-A2GIRNTWD1TYUX
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-Momentum-Cyclonic-Upright-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A2GIRNTWD1TYUX
ReviewerName: Morris
Date: January 31, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 1.0
Title: Bissell Momentum Bagless Vacuum Model 82G7
Content:
We purchased a Bissell Momentum Bagless Vacuum Model 82G7 in June 2008.
After having it for less than 7 months and using it twice a month or so it began to smell terribly of burning plastic that quickly filled the room and blue sparks visible within headlight lens.  In addition, the vacuum became increasingly louder.  The filters were kept clean, the belt replaced as needed and the dust bin emptied after each use.
We contacted Bissell in early January 2009 and were told to take it to the closest authorized Bissell repair shop for inspection.
Several days later the technician informed us the extremely loud noise is not normal; is caused by the motor failing, cannot be repaired so therefore must be replaced.
Later that week we picked up the brand new, unopened, in the sealed box, replacement vacuum only to discover the plastic housing that secures the belt and brush was broken into three pieces within the box.  A shipping issue?
We are tremendously disappointed with this vacuum and the fact it only worked for 7 months before needing repair. This vacuum was purchased to replace our 15 year old, still functioning, Hoover upright which we now think was a mistake and not one we're likely to repeat.
We're now waiting to find out if the replacement can be repaired, must again be replaced or will be exchanged for another model of some sort.
Pros:
Vacuum does an excellent job of cleaning carpeting.
Vacuum cleans up pet hair adequately.
Bagless, no bags to buy.
Cons:
Motor is exceptionally loud.
Dust bin removal messy, must be emptied outside or you'll have to vacuum again.
Upholstery brush next to useless.
Hose does not stretch out properly when being used and pulls vacuum over.
Brush spins on Bare Floor setting.
Hose frequently disconnects from vacuum during course of vacuuming.
Expensive filters.
Clogs easily.