ID: B000WG5FFM-R3HS87PNCUBRTP-A9NXHWX344DJB
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Pink
ReviewerID: A9NXHWX344DJB
ReviewerName: John Sheehan "sheehanje"
Date: January 26, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Exceeded Expectations
Content:
First off I want to say Pepsi and Amazon had an amazing promotion with Pepsi Points.  Not only did I get CD's, Headphones, and some other products, my leftover Pepsi Points at the end of the promotion were thrown into some Sweepstakes.  I thought I lost the points, but ended up coming home to a new Zune 8GB MP3 player that was won with the leftover points.  Talk about a suprise.
What's even better than winning the Zune 8GB, is how well it functions.  I've played around with the iTouch, but I'm a PocketPC person, and I have an iPaq 211 to meet my work needs.  The iTouch too me seemed too much as an MP3 player, and at the same time had too little flexibility compared to the iPaq.  I also bought my wife an iPod 80GB classic last year, and I think it's a great product as far as an MP3 player.
I've heard about Zune, and even about the last lock up incident they had with the leap second.  While I was excited to win something for simply drinking Pepsi, which I've been drinking all my life, I wasn't expecting much.  Then I started using it.  
I downloaded the Zune software, and added my personal collection to it.  The one irk I've had, the Zune software doesn't play nice with my homegrown and local music.  It lumps all the unknown artist's (my own band, local bands, certain CD's I have that were ripped a long time ago) under 1 artist.  If I rename the artist on one, it changes it for all.  So I tried renaming Pink Floyd to the proper name, now all my music that wasn't identified is now listed under Pink Floyd.  This is my biggest irk with Zune, especially seeing my CD collection is over 1500 CD's, and a lot of this stuff is from the 80's and 90's, so it will get lumped under 1 artist (unkown).  Other than that important issue to me, I think the Zune software is great.  I'm sold on the Zune pass, $14.99 plus 10 permanent song downloads is well worth it.  Besides the issue I have with how Artists are categorized, Zune is ahead of iTunes as far as aesthetics and usability.  Kudos to allowing more than 1 computer and more than 1 device to be attached to an account.  For this reason, I'm thinking of selling the iPod classic and getting a 120gb Zune for my wife.
As far as the device itself, it's not anything groundbreaking, but is very functional and works well.  The radio feature is great for me, cause I like to listen to sports and news when I'm on the bus.  The headphones that came with the unit are on the average side, so I already replaced those.  Wireless connectivity is slow for syncing, but good for device to device sharing.  Updating the firmware was painless and added a good amount of features.  Syncing with the Zune software was painless via the supplied USB cable, and it seemed easier than iTunes to control what gets synced and what doesn't.
The sound on this device is above average, especially compared to iPods.  I was suprised there was no EQ, which is a bit of a disappointment because of all the older and local music I listen too that can use some EQ.  For newer songs and stuff I get from Zune Pass, it's fine without the EQ because most of this stuff is mastered to sound right on an MP3 player.  
As far as aesthetics are concerned, I have a very unassuming black model.  It's light, and seems rugged enough to use to get to work and back.  While not important to me, using my own pictures for a background is a nice touch.  The screen is small, and I probably won't use it for videos as I have a full 4" VGA screen on my iPaq that will do a much better job.  The touch pad is easy to use, but seems on the sensitive side at times.  I find it easier to use then the wheel on the iPod classic.  
I probably would've given this 4 stars if I bought the unit, just for the problems I have with categorizing artists in the Zune software itself.  Seeing I won this in a contest I didn't even know I was entered into, I'm giving it 5 stars.  This exceeds any expectation I ever had of a Zune device, and with this experience, I will probably purchase another one.