ID: B000A33B1C-R1YV3LF191WOH7-A1GWLHT83J98FN
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Delonghi-TRD0715T-Safe-Oil-Filled-Radiator
ReviewerID: A1GWLHT83J98FN
ReviewerName: SoCalReviews
Date: February 24, 2006
Helpful: 451 of 455
Rating: 5.0
Title: The best electric space heater I have ever used !
Content:
I have tried the quartz and ceramic heaters which often require a small fan to circulate air past the elements to heat the air. I have also been in homes that use natural gas for gravity heat, central air, built in electric ceiling heat, and a natural gas wall heater.  Most of the gas or electric element heaters that I mentioned tend to dry out and remove some of the oxygen from the air which can cause that uncomfortable "soar throat and headache" feeling.  These DeLonghi oil-filled radiators don't seem to negatively effect the air since they use clean electricity and simply heat up the air through efficient convection and radiation.  This model TRD0715T has side metal tubing that creates more of a vacuum effect which seems to make the hot air blow out of the top of the unit without the use of a fan. DeLonghi rightfully nicknames this as a "Dragon model" since has the effect of a forced air heater without the noise or extra electricity requirements.  On low 700W, medium 900W, or high 1500W settings you can feel the hot air at least two feet above the top of the heater. A simple analog thermostat dial enables you to choose your desired temperature level for the unit to operate at. Other nice features include a 96 position, 24 hour timer that allows you to customize when the heater turns on or off throughout the day.  There are also some nice safety features such as an automatic shut-off if the unit is tipped over or if the temperature of the unit gets too high. Although the sides and top of the device get hot it does not burn you if you happen to accidently touch it. These devices are very efficient compared to the other electric heaters and many people use them as very efficient room space heaters and they are able to turn down their central air systems to save on gas or electricity.
PROS: This oil filled heater is clean, energy efficient, safe, and works well at heating small to medium sized rooms. The clever design allows for a hot air vacuum effect which heats a room faster, this model includes a 24 hour programmable timer. Retractable wheels allow you to easily move or store the device. The sealed oil-filled unit with auto shut off features makes it one of the safest electric heater designs.
CONS: Not as effective at heating large rooms that have poor insulation or large open areas. Energy efficiency is limited to use as a space heater in smaller to medium sized rooms or very well insulated larger rooms. The heated air is very non-directional compared to forced air or reflective quartz or ceramic electric space heaters. Similar to other types of large electric space heaters it requires a very high (up to 1500W) electrical current from a single outlet which can cause problems in homes or buildings with very old or poorly designed electrical systems. It does not have a digital LCD temperature display which is a common feature on many other space heater models.
SUGGESTIONS: On their high setting most electrical space heaters can draw as much electrical current as a big hair drier. Make a plan as to which room outlet you are going to plug this high current heater into since it is recommended that you do not have any other high current devices plugged into the same outlet or on the same circuit as this heater. If you have any of the previously mentioned issues with your electrical system consider using the low 700W or medium 900W settings to help prevent any problems with overloading the electrical circuit. If you are on a very tight budget and you don't need a programable timer take a look at the very low cost model EW0507W (I also own one of these)  which has less features and no metal side tubing but uses the same basic oil-filled radiator technology. When brand new all models of these heaters give off a "wet paint" odor which in fact from an anti-corrosion chemical used to protect the unit during shipping. Simply keep the heater in a well ventilated area when you use it the very first time and the odor will go away for good after running it at the high temperature setting for a few hours. 
 
THE BOTTOM LINE: This "Dragon model" TRD0715T safe heat oil filled heat radiator is the best room space heater I have ever used. I am so impressed with this heater that I have purchased two of them. I give it the highest rating of FIVE out of FIVE STARS.