ID: B000CRX6YI-R2FRCBU8M11GGF-A35ZL70KC1TQI1
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-70mm-3-5-4-5G
ReviewerID: A35ZL70KC1TQI1
ReviewerName: R. Richardson
Date: March 8, 2007
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 4.0
Title: Finally a lighter professional-quality digital SLR!
Content:
My first professional digital SLR was the Nikon D1X.  I got great pictures with it but it was too large and heavy to lug around for extended periods.  I also had some issues with its operation.  But now, Nikon seems to have solved my issues with the D200.  I purchased the dedicated SB-800 flash and 18-200 lens recommended in the D200's manual.  The whole system is much improved over my other digital SLR.  Both focus and metering seem to work more reliably.  It works better in available light.  The optical anti-vibration aids in overall picture sharpness (plus for those of us who are not rock-steady).  I am getting use to the button sequence required to enlarge the picture preview and really like the amount of magnification possible.  The menuing system seems quite extensive and well-organized.  I would like more latitude in the picture quality settings (e.g. contract, saturation, and sharpness).  The help screens really tell me something when I'm confused.  I appreciate the "modeling" feature.  It is useful when attempting to compose in a dark situation.  It also lets me see reflections BEFORE they are committed to the picture.  Unfortunately this feature does not work using the built-in flash.  I wish Nikon could add some type of lock on the continuous-single-manual focus selector on the front of the camera.  My finger seems to move that switch unknowingly.  I would appreciate a battery charger with a built in plug rather than the detachable cord.  As a person who still wears thick glasses, I wish Nikon could make the viewfinder more like the one on their old N8008.  Or maybe it's time to do away with pentaprisoms and mechanical mirrors  and give us a truly pro camera that mimics the high-end pro-sumer models with electronic viewfinders and adjustable view screens!