ID: B000FFRYYK-R1HSUIBSES2GH3-A1G2OD3IULAT51
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: BTX-B-ThermoFresh-10-Cup-Thermal-Carafe-Coffee
ReviewerID: A1G2OD3IULAT51
ReviewerName: Trenton E. Capp
Date: July 31, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great with a few minor things that make it a 4 star rather than 5
Content:
Maybe I missed it in the description, but this is a mini electric hot water heater.  I try to cut power usage where I can, and knowing that this thing has to be on all the time to keep the water hot was disappointing.  Granted, it doesn't draw much power, but it all adds up.  I take a half star off for that.
I take another half star off because one must use special bunn filters because standard filters are too short.  The coffee grounds will spill over standard filters, De-Caff is especially bad for this.  They do say they can send me a free low pressure nozzle to fix this problem, but I wonder if it would then slow down the brew time and, thus, affect the flavor of the coffee?
Another thing I'm not wild about is the "switch" to start brewing.  This is simply the lid where the water goes.  It is a habit to fill the tank and close the lid in one motion, but that will trigger it to start brewing instantly, before you can get the carafe in place.  I'd much rather have a front mounted start button.  
That all said, I am very very happy with this.  The coffee is excellent and I use very cheap coffee. It is far less bitter than my old pot.  It is easy to use and very fast.  The water does not get to 200 degrees though.  Mine gets to 189.  Still, it is much better than average coffee makers.
The carafe is great as well.  No fragile glass liner and it works better than those anyway.  
Another nice feature about this coffee maker is you can add half a carafe or even a travel mug's volume of water and it will only brew that volume of coffee.  This is very nice when you don't want a full carafe.  I normally fill it about 2/3rds full.  
Was it worth the price?  Probably not, unless you really really are picky about your coffee.  However, I am not disappointed in my purchase.  It should be maybe $50 less in my opinion, but then again, everything seems too expensive lately so go figure.