ID: B000XRQ2QQ-RW3TR0E6YYBCQ-A481APRDXCG8X
Category: MP3Players
Product: ibiza-Rhapsody-H1A030P-Player-Haier
ReviewerID: A481APRDXCG8X
ReviewerName: Jeff G. "Jeff"
Date: April 3, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Player for Rhapsody Fans
Content:
I have had the Ibiza for about a month and love it.  Set up was pretty easy - just follow the instructions.   I set up the wireless ethernet once and it re-connects automatically every time.  Compared to an IPod, the "cool" factor is not as high - the aesthics, menus and interface aren't as slick, but the Ibiza's ability to both stream wirelessly and download from Rhapsody service makes it far superior to IPod (Our family has three IPod's).
The Ibiza has a nice big screen, a good solid feel, and still fits in a shirt pocket.  The "speed" of the touchpad is adjustable.  The battery life is fine.  The sound quality is very good (my kids say it sounds better than their IPods).  It has been 100% reliable.
It is great paying $15/month to "rent" unlimited Rhapsody downloads of songs and CD's plus streaming custom channels - much better than buying $0.99 songs on ITunes that have DRM restrictions anyway.  I have over 1000 tracks now on the Ibiza, and still have 20 Gig's left on the hard drive.  This would be over $1,000 of music on ITunes.
UPDATE 1 year later:
Have had this Rhapsody Ibiza over a year and it is going strong - good as new.   Have not had to touch the wifi connection since I set it up a year ago.  I just turn the Ibiza on near my wireless router (the wifi range is not very long) and it updates podcasts and music liscenses automatically.  
I have over 2000 songs stored on this with loads of room to spare.  Unlimited music downloads from Rhapsody for a flat monthly fee is great - you can check out any new music you want - no reason to have a stale play-list.  
The text entry for music search is slow and cumbersome.  Maybe this is unavoidable since you are searching a massive database using a tiny handheld...it works.
Very happy with this purchase, and would buy one again.