ID: B000VAKI60-R2B49DBH1Z3MKX-A2Z8A2XNL6YP3D
Category: MP3Players
Product: Sony-Walkman-Video-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A2Z8A2XNL6YP3D
ReviewerName: Carlos "CAP"
Date: October 11, 2007
Helpful: 10 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best MP3 Player Ever
Content:
This MP3 player is the best I have had so far.  I have had 3 iPods and a Zune, and they can not be compared to the amazing sound delivered by this new Sony MP3 player.  For those wanting a flash based player, this item is one of the smallest and more portable out there with an extremely bright and clear LCD display which allows for viewing videos on the go.  To make it even better, Sony did not go cheap, the player features a nice durable and well designed metal body, thats a bit taller than the new Nano Videos, not as wide and thick though.  Sony also includes a set of great ear buds, which are a lot better than those packed with any other player out there.  
     I was tempted to go with the other Sony MP3 player,which has an FM tuner built in and is a bit smaller, but after comparing them, I think I rather have the one with the metal body, better sound and .2" bigger LCD.  Those of you that buy either of the new Sony's will be amazed by the performance of this well built device, and will love it a whole lot more than any other device that has been introduced into the market.
     I got the Nano Video a few weeks ago, that went on eBay already.  Compared to an iPod and iTunes, Sony has a nice user interface thats nicer than Apple's, you'll have no scroll wheel to deal with, you get better audio quality, a brighter LCD, and in my opinion a much nicer design.  You can use Windows Media, but I highly recommend using Napster (which comes with the player).  Napster is really close to the iTunes interface and will allow you to purchase albums and songs you like or you can pay $15 a month for unlimited downloads.  Those of you buying this MP3 player over the others on the market as of now will be making a great choice and will absolutely love this machine.