ID: B000GLHVZA-R1W37VXO9F1AOS-AEUPUE8C8ZRD
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Vornado-EH1-0034-06-Vortex-Full-Room-Electric
ReviewerID: AEUPUE8C8ZRD
ReviewerName: Mike J. Manus
Date: February 14, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Nothing Compares to this Heater/Fan
Content:
First off, I would like to say that this is the ONLY personal heater/fan made in the USA. I did over 5 hours of pure research before I made a purchase and everything else was made in China. I don't know about you, but if I'm gonna be sleeping with a (potentially dangerous) heater/fan on all night, I don't trust in leaving it up to the Chinese to keep me safe with their "high-quality"(feel the sarcasm?) production. If you trust in the Chinese with a potentially fire-prone heater, then you best have a smoke alarm in your room (probably also made in China haha!).
The main thing I like about this heater is that it is not only a heater, but it's a normal fan too! I'm the type of person who can't sleep without some sort of white noise at night, and let me tell you...this fan was perfect for that specific purpose. The "Fan Only" mode is the absolute perfect noise level for sleeping...not too quiet, and not so loud that you won't be able to hear your alarm in the morning. 
The heater works extremely well. It does not feel like most heaters, where when you get close to the heater-grill, it will burn your hand. This heater feels more like a luxurious car-heater. There is a "Hi & Low" mode, and there is also the "Fan Only" mode (see above). You can also set the room temp, and the heater will only put out as much power as it needs to reach the desired temperature...after that it will reduce power. I have not experimented with that setting yet, I am only going by what Vortex claims.
The heater is very light, and is designed in such a way that makes it very hard to tip over. It has a nice, modern black look, and the controls are very straight-forward and easy to operate. It's the perfect size too.
The cost is a bit high, but I think it's worth it (if you have the money) to invest in such a high-quality product. If you're only going to be turning the heater on while you are awake, and at home, then I don't see any problem with owning/using a Chinese-made heater...I just don't trust a Chinese-made heater/fan being used while I'm asleep at night. I don't mean to scare anyone out of buying a Chinese-made heater/fan...just don't turn it on while you sleep.
So, overall I don't think there is any better choice than the Vortex Vornado AVH2. It's fits my needs in every way and is safe. Previous to the Vortex Vornado, I owned a Chinese-made "DeLonghi DCH1030" which was actually pretty nice, but it didn't even compare to the Vortex. And yes it was made in China, so I didn't trust it at night while I was sleeping.
This is one of those rare times where I was more satisfied than I anticipated, after making a purchase.
A++++ Vortex! (Hopefully it doesn't break after writing this review , haha.)