ID: B00005LEXI-R238C6NHNRKZKB-A2A0C33ATKPKG7
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Mr-Heater-MRHF273400-Buddy-Portable
ReviewerID: A2A0C33ATKPKG7
ReviewerName: Van Blakeman "Van"
Date: November 17, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: When it stops working, try this (very carefully!)
Content:
We got this 4000/9000 BTU Mr Heater Buddy about a year ago to replace the 2 Coleman catalyctic heaters in our trailer. Also the Mr Heater filter, 12 foot hose, and a 20 lb tank from Wal-Mart. It worked great through most of the winter - until it stopped - COLD turkey! The environment is clean and the mountain (3000 ft) air cleaner (no smoking for me inside either). When it is on, an adjacent window had to be cracked open or its oxygen sensor would shut it off after awhile. We appreciated that. Perhaps our 2 bodies and the dog made the air a bit stuffy but I think the window would resolve that too. Never figured out why it stopped working. Maybe it was because we were shutting off the heater instead of the tank; who knows. I tried all the suggested tips for cleaning the tube, cussing, kicking, etc. (did not try spitting) but nothing helped.
We were back to the Coleman's, each with its own filter, hose and 20 lb tank. Then the older one became impossible to light with the usual BIC. I got an idea - I lit up a hand-held blow torch and used that instead of the BIC. It smoked like hill with all the accumulated whatever suddenly getting hot enough to vaporize, but it was all going out the open door, and after awhile it stopped smoking and I shut the door as its hot orange catalytic pad was finally throwing heat into the room again. Has worked fine since.
Then I got another idea. I hooked the Mr Heater up again (outside), pressed the knob at "Pilot", and aimed that pencil thin blow torch flame straight down the tube. It sputtered and spit little sparks, probably residue from whatever I had used to clean it 8 months ago, but the pilot lit and then the burner came on and it worked flawlessly. Shut it off and then restarted it the right way and it worked. When it gets cold tonight, I will repeat this procedure and leave it on 4 or 5 hours until it is time for bed. We will see. If these heaters need  a torch to get started, that is okay with me, but I think the force and intensity of the torch has vaporized and blown out whatever stuff had gradually settled in and clogged things up on both heaters. We will see.