ID: B00005LEXI-R1AZM32PGXRCVA-A18XKR9BUOHI5G
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Mr-Heater-MRHF273400-Buddy-Portable
ReviewerID: A18XKR9BUOHI5G
ReviewerName: Just Like Gizmos
Date: November 18, 2006
Helpful: 65 of 65
Rating: 4.0
Title: Use some preventive maintenance measures....
Content:
I use this heater when I camp in my trailer, and it works great especially when used in conjunction with a 20-lb. propane tank.  If you do use a 20-lb. tank, however, I STRONGLY recommend that you use the fuel filter (around $10 and yes, this is mentioned in the manual) and also that you always close the propane tank shut-off before turning off the Portable Buddy so that all the gas is burned out.  Why?  I went through two units that started shutting themselves off about a year after purchase before I found out that oily residue starts building up within the heater when the previous two suggestions are not followed.  Even when I tried cleaning it out (I did a complete disassembly), it was not successful unless the control unit and the regulator are replaced as well.  I did find a lot of oily mess within contol unit area, but couldn't get it all so it's just as easy to replace the entire unit.  What happens is that when you turn on the unit, it seems to work; but, as the oily residue works its way up to the flame part, it will start going out on its own - the time it takes to go out in my experience was around 1/2 hour.  As far as the precautions go, the fuel filter was easy for me to find locally where propane items are sold (farm stores, large sporting goods stores); it is easy to install (it screws into the heater where a 1-lb. bottle would be located and then the hose to the tank screws right into the fuel filter - it should last a year).  I pick up an extra one once the current one is being used.  I'm getting in the habit of shutting off the gas first.  I would give this heater 5 stars if they would have explained this malfunction better - I ended up talking with tech support before finding out what was actually wrong.   
Also, even in very cold weather, I leave about 6" of window open to keep the condensation to a minimum.