ID: B000UWF5DU-R19NHTH5QW7G1B-A1ZJUFOO9X9W43
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-CMD3500MBT-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1ZJUFOO9X9W43
ReviewerName: Read for Pleasure
Date: October 16, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: Happy at last with this B&D thermal carafe coffee maker--updated
Content:
I agree with other reviewers, coffee makers are so hard to research because everyone is so particular about his/her coffee and if you have a bad coffee maker experience, it's a really bad experience.  I spent so much $$$ on a Capresso, then it went and broke my heart.  This B&D has all of the same features, a few of the same drawbacks, and works much, much better at a third of the price.  Amazon is so great about delivering quickly with the best (or at least a very competitive) price.  
I'd say maybe the Capresso carafe is a bit tighter, but it spilled constantly.  No doubt, some poor student is now coping with that model having picked it up from the thrift shop where I dumped it.  With the instruction manual and extra filters.  
You must be careful when threading the lid on the B&D, but the coffee-us interruptus feature really does work!  Yay!  What is most important to me about a coffee maker?  Dependability.  Will it give me a good cuppa every morning, no spill, no babying it along?  ---Updated---NO.  My long-suffering husband just cleaned up the counter again and asked me to find another coffee maker.  Rats.  He thinks the link between the basket and carafe is vacuum (?) and any amount of babying will not predict whether or not it will leak.  I'll report back if I can find one that's reliable.  
Well, we gave up on the carafe and keep a thermos nearby if we feel we really need it.  Instead, we've bought a Bunn coffee maker, Bunn NHB Professional Home Brewer, Black
which is dependable and makes a 12-cup very quickly.  Downside is that it keeps a tank hot at all times so it's a bit of an energy hog and it has a funny hot-plastic aroma.  Also, be prepared if you pour water in!  It is ready to go immediately!