ID: B000I3ZCWU-R35CGM39HYMZJN-A2VE2L6BD1T36V
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-10-1MP-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A2VE2L6BD1T36V
ReviewerName: Alexander Turkatte "Alex"
Date: March 12, 2007
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Overall DSLR and a Great Value
Content:
I purchased the XTi/400D because I used to have the Rebel XT/350D (lost during divorce) and I was much more familiar with Canon than I was with Nikon.  I've made several lighting mistakes with manual setting, but these were my error and due mostly to the high f-stop lens attached.
The new sensor cleaning system is definitely a plus, but it obviously cannot prevent dust during numerous lens changes.  Read up carefully and have the right tools before trying to clean the sensor yourself!  I tried canned air once and it left fluid residue on the sensor.
The AI Servo is not as good as I hoped for action sequence shots, but at this price for a Canon body, you can't beat it.  I've taken several great pictures of my son's indoor and outdoor sports events using fast 1.8 and 2.8 lens.  Make sure to get a large and fast CF card (2GB/4GB, 120x or faster) if you're taking sports action shots.  
I've found it convenient to use the small XTi body with a cheap 50mm f/1.8 lens when out in the evenings under low light conditions.  ISO 1600 on this model does show noise, but it will get those night indoor bar and club shots that you won't get otherwise without using a flash.  If you have to use a flash which will cause bad shadows (and draws unwanted attention), try to use the 430EX flash or even better the 580EX.  The built in flash is very powerful, but it fires several preflashes to sense distance, color temp, etc.  This can really upset the people being photographed or scare away any night life.  
The 1.6x crop factor can be a good or bad thing depending on whether you like telephoto or wide angle.  Maybe someday I'll have enough money to purchase the new Mark III with only 1.3 crop, or maybe I'll just get the 5D full frame body which isn't as good for sports/action sequences.  Overall, I'm extremely happy with this lightweight camera body.  Note that I mostly use this with the extra BG-E3 battery grip.  
Overall, I am thoroughly happy with the XTi/400D and it truly is a major improvement over the previous XT/350D.