ID: B000A33B1C-RP5RY9ZJW1S4-A1HXL4AL8IM09H
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Delonghi-TRD0715T-Safe-Oil-Filled-Radiator
ReviewerID: A1HXL4AL8IM09H
ReviewerName: P. Rizzuto
Date: November 10, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Not bad for a space heater
Content:
We bought two Delonghi TRD715T heaters to use as supplemental heating to our oil.  We put one in our 2 year old son's room and one in the living room.  The three power settings are great for finding a good performance level without using the full 1500w most other heaters use, saving a lot on electricity.  If I turn on the heater about 30 minutes before my son goes to sleep, it keeps his room at a nice temperature for cold nights.  As others have said, it takes a little while to get up to operating temperature, but that's only because it needs to heat the oil instead of having a heating element that heats up almost instantly. 
The only thing from keeping me giving the heaters a 5 star rating is the lack of digital controls.  The "96 timing options" are just a set of 96 little dip switches on the front of the unit.  You turn the entire dial so the arrow points to the approximate time, then you set the dip switches up or down depending on whether you want the unit to turn on or turn off.  It's very very tedious, and difficult to set correctly. 
The other problem is there is no temperature control except for a slider below the power dial.  Slide it to the left and it sets a lower temperature.  Slide it to right and it's higher.  It took a few days to find the right setting for that slider so that my son's room was neither too hot nor too cold.
For such a nice looking and working unit, not having digital controls and a temperature setting cheapens it quite a bit.  If it had these controls, it would have been a solid 5 star rating, and I probably would have bought another one for our kitchen area, which gets cold during the winter.
For those who don't mind fiddling with 96 dip switches and a slider for temperature, this is a good unit at a fair price.