ID: B000NVVDKC-RCZV0Z53L15YM-A1L6GSPJMCNZQW
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Evolt-Digital-Camera-Stabilization
ReviewerID: A1L6GSPJMCNZQW
ReviewerName: BrianS "BrianS"
Date: July 19, 2007
Helpful: 47 of 79
Rating: 3.0
Title: Disapointed
Content:
I had great expectations for Olympus E-510.  After learning on a Canon A620, I wanted something that would give me consistently better pictures.  Unfortunately, the E-510 is not that camera.  I am plagued with out of focus, under and over exposed junk shots.  Out of 500 shots, four were keepers.  I have tried shooting in all modes, indoors and out,  with bad results.  For a time, I might have had trouble getting consistent lens contact, which would explain some of the poor focus problem.  Eventually, auto focus could be obtained in still controlled indoor shots, but not outside (for me, the viewfinder is inadequate for manual focus).  Also, Image Stability seems to offer little help in cutting down blur.  The camera feels great to hold, and has all the bells and whistles, but what's the use if you can't get clear pictures.  Final thought: It has been discussed at length, the need to turn off noise reduction on the E-510, in order to get clear pictures ( usually have it off).  For some shots this is helpful, but for most it will introduce an abundance of noise into your pictures.  In many cases, I can get better results from my point-n-shoot (in manual mode) than I can in any selection with the E-510.  I don't have any other cameras to compare with, so similar models of other brands may not be better.  I do know that $900 is a lot to pay for a failed photographic experiment.
Follow up after 1 month, about 2000 shots:
   Hopefully, this is my final word on the e510.  After being accused of naiveté by more learned photographers, I was frustrated about how to warn against the limitations of this camera.  After rereading many of the e510 online reviews, at various photo sites, I noticed some of them warn against the limitations of the sensor.  They state that it operates at the far limits of what a sensor its size can handle.  This is the only thing that makes sense to me, when trying to make a rational evaluation.  Perhaps my frustration is that my old P&S (Canon A620) had a very high quality sensor, for that kind of camera, and that I expected the E510 to surpass it, which it hasn't, except in a few limited cases.
	I like to visit my local park and shoot geese and ducks, mostly.  My old A620 would give me dazzlingly sharp pictures of wing tip feather details.  However, I needed a tripod, perfect light, a range within 50ft.  The E510, according to the reviews, promised to overcome those limits.  The samples provided by some reviews looked very good.  So I expected the E510 would easily meet my expectations.
	My first disappointment with the E510 was that the IS in Auto mode would not give good pool-party style pictures - even a P&S without IS can do this.  My next disappointment was that it would not take controlled indoor still photos well, even on a tripod, even in Manual mode - they were blurry.  I suspect that the lens was making poor electrical contact with the body, since Oly warns about this in their FAQ, and because the pictures improved later.
	My real disappoint was at the park shooting ducks and geese.  I had high hopes that IS would let me take hand held shots, but no.  I took 150 hand held shots alternating between kit lenses without a keeper.  The next day, I tried again with both noise liters turned off, but the results were about the same (noise being a minor issue in these kinds of shots).  So I brought my tripod to the park, but still, in daylight, with sitting ducks, using every settable range available on the camera, only 2 of 170 shots were keepers.  This was no better than my A620 P&S!
	I don't hate the E510, I'm just disappointed.  I paid $700 more than I did for my P&S for pictures of comparable quality.  I love the way the E510 feels - it makes you want to go shooting.  I love the lenses, especially the 40-150mm.  I will definitely keep working to find the sweet spot in this camera.  However, the LiveView is useless if you are trying to capture a moment, since it has a one second shutter delay.  The viewfinder is too small and dim to accurately use manual focus in most cases.  Also, the viewfinder display isn't bright enough in daylight to see easily, unless you give your eye time to adjust.  The passive AF (common to DSLRs) on the E510 is easily confused, especially in dim light.  When AF uses the flash to set range, it delays the shot by seconds, and ruins a candid shot.  Comparing shots with my friend's xti, I end up with large dark patches, that the xti doesn't get.  There are adjustments that can correct some of this, but you loose in other areas to do it - the xti does not.  This, according to the reviews, may be due to a sharp luminance drop off, compared to the xti, and the D40x.
	I bow to those photo masters who, not so graciously, commented on my review.  I still have a lot to learn.  However, there are limitations to this camera that are being ignored.  If this were a $500 or $600 camera, I would say hurray; the picture quality isn't any better than my $200 P&S, but it has lots of bells and whistles, and it feels great to work with.  You can't move into DSLR much cheaper, so suffer the disappointment with me (all entry level DSLRs have their draw backs), or put out the really big bucks, I guess.  I see the Canon EOS 1Ds Mark II is selling for about $7000 (body only).