ID: B0000SWAC8-R1XKJ0V352M0DI-A2U20XN5A9VP5H
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL6988D-Oxygen3-Canister-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A2U20XN5A9VP5H
ReviewerName: Ann Reid
Date: January 13, 2005
Helpful: 93 of 94
Rating: 4.0
Title: the handle melted!
Content:
Well, I have to revise my review, which is listed below.  I posted that review just after I bought the Oxygen in 2005.  It worked fine for four years, so I guess I got my money's worth, if you think it's worth $100 a year.  Then the plastic handle just melted -- I kept smelling a burning smell as I was vacuuming, and thought at first it was the engine, but then I saw the plastic was red-hot and literally melting near the handle, where the attachment plugs into the handle. I took it to an Electrolux store to get it fixed and they said (a) it's not really Electrolux, it's a Eureka, and (b) it would cost several hundred dollars to repair it.  So I bought a really nice Panasonic canister vacuum from Amazon, the Panasonic MC-CG885, that seems to be working well so far (knock wood)...  It has a metal hose, so at least that can't melt.  
Here's my original review:
My main complaint with other vacuum cleaners I've had (and I've had many -- Kenmores, Eurekas, Hoovers, you name it) is that they're heavy, and loud.  The Oxygen is lightweight (it weighs a mere 13 pounds, as opposed to most other cleaners, which weigh at least 20 pounds) and very quiet.  But it's very powerful, has great suction, and almost breaks away and cleans on its own when you turn on the carpet feature.  It's very easy to switch between carpet and bare floor, since the control is on the handle.  The only drawback:  the bare-floor brush attachment doesn't attach very well -- it should snap on, but it doesn't, so it tends to come off sometimes.  But that's nothing compared to all the wonderful things there are about this neat little vacuum cleaner.    Definitely worth the extra money.
By the way, I used to own an Electrolux, the real kind that's made in the USA, and although it was a good vacuum cleaner it weighed a ton and was difficult to lug around different rooms.  I'd much rather have this lighter-weight Swedish model, esp. since it's half the price of the American Electrolux.