ID: B000AQPMHA-R3DE1MDA0O3OJA-A2QCVH26U4264O
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Gourmet-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: A2QCVH26U4264O
ReviewerName: Boss O' the House
Date: June 16, 2008
Helpful: 5 of 6
Rating: 3.0
Title: Great for the masses, not so good for Peets' drinkers
Content:
How we got this machine:  My husband saw this machine at a second-hand store yesterday and called me up to look it up on Amazon.  I was very impressed by the high ratings.  Although we were looking at replacing our 15+-yr-old Braun drip that recently died with a new, $200 drip Capresso MT500Plus, I figured that this single-serve machine might just do the trick for our household.  My husband likes the free coffee at work, I really only need 6-8 oz in the morning to get me jump-started, and my father-in-law drinks even less.  After a brief discussion of the machine's condition -  it appeared brand-new and included the box and everything - we decided to go for it.
Opening the box:  Hoping we were getting the deal of a lifetime, we eagerly took it out of the box last night to test it out.  The assortment of K-cups included coffee brands I had never heard of (Dietrich Coffee, Timothy's, Van Houtte, Green Mountain, Coffee People) and other brands that I don't care for particularly (Caribou Coffee, Tully's, Gloria Jean's, Celestial Seasonings - the one tea).  My usual is Peet's, which I like strong but not sludgy, but definitely not light.  Only 15 out of 18 K-cups were in the box, so it appeared that the previous owner made a few cups then decided against the machine.
Getting started:  We followed the directions to perform the one-time priming of the machine and discovered, happily, that the previous owner had already done it.  Because it was late at night, we settled on a pod of Timothy's Decaf Columbian and pressed the button for the small serving size.  I read the negative reviews about the noise, and yes, it's definitely noisier than your average drip coffeemaker, but it's the same sound of an espresso maker pump.
Coffee quality:  I really, really wanted to believe the good reviews.  However, to my dismay, out came the amber-colored water described by the few negative reviews.  Sip, blechhhh, disgusting!  Maybe because it was decaf.  And maybe because it was Timothy's (who dat?).  And drat - maybe because the expiration date was two months ago.
Second try:  This morning, we chose pods that were slightly fresher, within a month of expiring.  My father-in-law made the Dietrich French Roast, and perhaps because he prefers lighter, more watery coffee, he thought the coffee was pretty good.  I had the Tully's French Roast, and was again not impressed with the light-colored stream coming out of the machine.  After adding my usual half n half, I did end up drinking the whole thing, so eh, I guess it was OK.  Not great.  Something that would do its job of waking me up, but not something I would look forward to in the morning.
Conclusion:  I love the quick single-serve convenience and cleanliness of this machine.  I don't have a problem with the noise.  I'm fine with the temperature of the coffee.  I don't like the pods that came with the box.  I plan to get some better (and fresher!) quality pods and will test it out again, but I doubt that will fix the extraction problem.  I also plan to buy the reusable filter Keurig My K-Cup Reusable Coffee Filter so I can grind my own beans, but again, I'm not sure that will improve the strength of the coffee.  I would not recommend this machine for lovers of strong, Peet's-type coffee.  But if you're like my father-in-law and prefer a lighter brew, then this machine is definitely for you!
Also, because of the convenience features and the fact that it would likely satisfy, if not please, the masses, this would be a great machine for office or church settings.  In fact, if this machine does not pass further home experimentation with better quality coffee, then it will probably make a wonderful, and very welcome, addition to our Sunday church refreshment table.