ID: B0007Y7976-R2C6P3OV0GJSZQ-A24Q08MLYYIKEI
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-White-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A24Q08MLYYIKEI
ReviewerName: mdmoiselle
Date: August 16, 2007
Helpful: 2 of 10
Rating: 1.0
Title: Awful product, awful customer service.
Content:
My first experience with an apple product and it's going to be my last.  Heard a lot of hype about iPods and I was going to upgrade my Rio so I bought an iPod.  HUGE mistake.  It arrived Saturday.  It didn't come with software, the software had to be downloaded.  Since I had just ordered a new computer I had given mine to a relative going to school my old, old computer didn't have the os to use the iPod software.  On Monday I set it up on my work computer until my new computer arrives.  It didn't work.  Kept telling me that I had to restore factory settings - it was brand new!  Got someone on the phone in customer service, he said that he had had at least seven calls (!) so far that day on the same problem.  First told me that if I had an apple computer I wouldn't have a problem, nice attempt at humor but not exactly welcome.  Then told me that there was a problem with the drivers for the USB port.  (Funny how it's always the other products fault -this supposedly great technology is being waylaid by a USB port - not exactly great technology.)  He got it to work by running me through a long list of procedures.  Great, thought the problem was fixed and was able to download music from the iStore.  Yeah, not quite fixed.  Had it working for about 24 hours when I decided to add more music.  When I connected the iPod it again insisted that I restore the factory settings, which wiped all the music off it, then it kept telling me over and over that the factory settings needed to be restored, but wouldn't actually work.  Called customer service again.  This time they told me that I had to send it back to them and in 7 to 14 days they would send me another one.  Yeah, right.  Talked to a friend who has an iPod, she doesn't have a problem with her iPod, but her iPod came with software.  Several of her family members also bought an iPod, but they had to download the software and they have been having continuous problems ever since.  I checked the website to see if I could get the software that came with the product and the site basically said that you were out of luck if you couldn't download it, that you'd better borrow or buy another computer to be able to run the iPod.  That is the most ridiculous and pompous thing a company could write about their product - that you must spend at least a $1k to make an mp3 player work!  DON'T BUY THIS (unless you have an apple computer) because it really doesn't work and it's extremely frustrating dealing with all the problems in a product that should be plug and play.  The new Rio is less expensive and I never had a problem with the software or hardware.