ID: B000NP1C5O-RR0V6Y67HSPHV-A3FEVYTFDEJGO2
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-1D-Mark-III-Digital
ReviewerID: A3FEVYTFDEJGO2
ReviewerName: Fatih Eman "Concert photographer"
Date: August 8, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Better than expected, except shutter noise.
Content:
This is a hand-on impression and not a detailed review.
I used the EOS 1D and the EOS 1d Mark IIN before. In addition, I also own a EOS 30D and a EOS 50D.
The first good surprise is that this camera is NOT as heavy as you would expect from this bulky size.
This is probably, at least in part, due to the fact that the battery is now smaller.
Talking of the battery, it's a new generation battery and charger. The battery is smaller than the 1D predecessors, but said to last longer.
By the way, if you put two batteries in the charger, it will charge one after the other and not both simultaneously. Just that you know. I did not like that.
When I took the first few pictures, it still 'sounds' like a powerful camera that attracts everybody's attention with it's loud clicks. I wish Canon tries harder to make this quieter. However, in addition to the modes One Shot, and Multiple Shots, etc, they provided a mode s (silent, or slow?) that seems to delay a bit the colsure of the shutter in an attempt to reduce this mechanical noise. I tried life view without reading the manual. It's tricky to get to it and to get out of it. Autofocus won't work in life view, at least the usual auto focus by half pressing the shutter button.
The buttons and control knobs at the back follow the 50D strategy, which is a good idea. you no longer need to keep pressing on a button and dial to where you want to go. Just press once and dial. 
Of course, you do not have the mode dial knob at the top left like the 50D. The EOS 1D Mark III is a professional grade camera. Therefore, no automatic modes for portraits, landscape, etc. You have to know what you are doing. But of course, semi automatic if also offered, like AV, where you decide the aperture, or TV where you decide the shutter speed.
One interesting feeling is that the litle buttons are now stronger. Previous 1D cameras used to have these buttons softer to press. It is still comfortable to use them but I would expect a longer life, because I feel the buttons more resistant but responsive enough and comfortable to use.
What about the ten pictures per second? Yes, indeed, although I did not physically count the number of pcitures per second, but I could easily feel it is higher than the 8,5 rate I had with my old EOS 1D and 1D Mark IIN. 
ATTENTION!!! The EOS 1D Mark III does not accept the EF-S lenses. It's a shame, because I would have liked to have the EF-S 18-200mm with this camera.
Last, but not least, I took a few pictures at ISO 3200 in the room of objects of different colors and shades, with conventional light and was amazed how noiseless they are.
As I said, this is not an extensive review but just first impressions. Hope that helps. I'll write a more detailed review some later time.