ID: B0004FL8NO-R1O7I4WFDU03YA-A28PAZCL1SHEGN
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-TCM830-Stainless-Steel-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A28PAZCL1SHEGN
ReviewerName: G. Korenek "egkor"
Date: February 5, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: 2 Year User
Content:
I have had a B&D TCM830 brewer for at least 2 years.  I believe I have had mine since it first came out as a product.
I have been extremely happy with mine, thus the 5 stars.
Over the years I have used "warmer plate" brewers (along with their resulting burnt coffee).  Next I used a B&D 8-cup thermal carafe (w/ glass internals carafe) brewer.
I really wanted a brewer with a 10-cup size thermal carafe, and I wanted the "cone" (Melitta) type filter.  But at the time, all the 10 cup thermal carafe brewers available that met my requirements cost +/- $100 USD or more.  I didn't want to spend that much.
Then I found the B&D TCM830.  A 10-cup, thermal carafe, and cone filter, under $50 USD.  Sold!  (I still have my B&D 8-cup as a backup.  Have not needed it!)
What I like about the B&D TCM830:
-Brews great coffee!
-10 cup Stainless thermal carafe, no power waste and no burnt coffee
-Coffee stays hot in carafe long enough for me to drink in morning and early afternoon
-Cone type filtering
-Removable water reservoir
-Programmable "on" time
What I don't like:
-Dropped the water reservoir on the ceramic tile floor and fortunately it only cracked at the top, it is still usable
-Thermal Carafe plastic top piece (cap) separated into 2 pieces (still held together by its valve and spring), making the 2 piece cap harder to "spin/thread" to insert and remove than the one piece cap
This brewer meets my requirements and after 2 years I am still very happy with it.  I believe even now (early 2009) that by comparison, this is the most product for the least cost.
The thermal carafe is stainless steel, and is Double Walled, which means "insulated".  If you fill the carafe with hot liquid (water/coffee), let it sit, and then put your hand on the bottom/sides, you will not feel any heat.  To me this means No Heat Loss.
After you brew coffee, you do need to remove the thermal carafe from the brewer to make the lid stopper close up, thus avoiding heat loss there.
Having read some users having trouble with their unit making a partial pot of coffee:  All I can offer here is, I've not had that happen over 2 years daily usage.  We have a whole-house water softener, and a under-sink RO water filter, and that is the water I use to brew coffee.  I think the softened water is easier on coffee makers, as it does not leave calcium deposits behind like hard water does.  I think this may be a reason why I have had good longetivity with my coffee brewers.
The B&D "parts" (and "product") web site (as of early 2009) lists the TCM830, the carafe/cap/reservoir/basket/manual are available as parts.
I hope this provide some additional data from a 2+ year user of the TCM830.