ID: B000ETVKHE-R3FYN5V0BH99NF-A3LPD7NTGFH7V4
Category: MP3Players
Product: SanDisk-Sansa-Player-MicroSD-Expansion
ReviewerID: A3LPD7NTGFH7V4
ReviewerName: bowery boy
Date: November 6, 2007
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: I love this mp3 player!
Content:
This was everything that I was looking for in a portable music device and more. Within minutes of removing it from the box, it was synced up to my laptop and I was loading music onto it.  Very user friendly and intuitive. I didn't want an iPod because I didn't want to convert all my WMA music files to iTunes and I didn't want to feel so limited with a proprietary device as the iPod (although friends who own iPods love theirs).  I wanted something that was affordable, held a reasonable amount of music and would accept mp3s and WMAs with no muss or fuss.  This was it.
The design, size and shape is hot and fits comfortably in my hand. The sound quality is really good (although diehard audiophiles may feel differently).  The screen is bright, the colors vibrant and the size just right (I only use this for music so I can't speak for the video or photo options).  I like the bonuses of an FM tuner, voice recording and the ability to record FM broadcasts too. The price was right and dirt cheap at the time of purchase from amazon which made this a sweet deal.
Unlike others, I have only had two slight problems with my player.  Sometimes I would lose sound in the left ear.  I would either restart the system or wait a few seconds and it would do a sizzly staticy fade in. I soon discovered this only happened when I used the custom EQ option.  Switching back to a factory EQ setting immediately restored the sound.  Since the custom EQ doesn't do much anyway and the tabs aren't labeled, I don't feel I am missing out on much.
And I am having a heck of a time getting it to display my album art. However, that's an extra but not necessary feature for me. I will suss out the solution later, or not at all.
My only beef is not being able to connect this to an exterior sound system via the USB port but using a headphone audio cable connector thingy allowed me to connect it to my stereo system.
Other quickly solvable beefs I had at first were having to charge the battery through the USB port.  Quickly solved by purchasing a Sandisk AC charger through amazon for an unbelievably low price. 
Also, the control buttons are tiny and hard to press and the surface of the player scratches easily. I also occasionally pressed the voice record button by accident but not as often as other reviewers seemed to.  All of the above were quickly solved by purchasing a Speck Products toughskin case also available through amazon.  It's a thick stylish casing that adds great grip to the unit, comes with a durable removable belt clip, a screen protector, recesses the control wheel, makes the control buttons easily accessible and prevents the record button from accidentally being pressed (you have to push hard and firmly to activate the record button).  
Also, the headphones that come with the unit are not the best.  I use my Sony Fontopia headphones.
Overall, for this being my first mp3 player I am highly satisfied and would recommend this to anyone who wants a simple, easy to use player.  However if you're a diehard technophile you will probably hate and gripe about little things that won't bother the average user. But for the average joe, you can't go wrong.