ID: B000Z4RKYU-R2EOJQTYQNA4H9-A399E6WVNEXGO6
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Hamilton-Beach-48274-Station-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A399E6WVNEXGO6
ReviewerName: Derek E. Schader
Date: March 15, 2009
Helpful: 33 of 33
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent Coffee Maker for Single Coffee Drinker!!
Content:
Ok, in my family, I am the only one who drinks coffee.  My wife does not.  This coffee maker is perfect for myself.  It allows me two full 14oz mugs of coffee without wasting an entire pot on just myself.  
Most 10-12 cup coffee makers don't do a good job of making smaller amounts of coffee for those of us that may have a single coffee drinker family.  The coffee is either lukewarm or not strong enough when trying to make a smaller batch.  My wife doesn't like coffee so I am stuck either getting an expensive single K-cup style coffee maker, pod maker or a 4-cup drip brewer.  However, thanks to the Hamilton Beach 48274 Brew Station 6-Cup Coffeemaker, I can end my search for the perfect solution.  
The Brew Station makes an excellent, piping hot cup of coffee.  It is said to be a 6-cup brewer and that may be the case for a regular 5oz mug.  But for me, I use a 14oz mug and this brewer makes exactly two full mugs of coffee with none to spare.  The coffee maker does an excellent job of keeping the coffee hot until needed, without continuously cooking the coffee or burning it.  The programming is easy to use, and the overall design is simple enough once you get used to filling the water reservoir.  I immediately ran three brewing cycles of just water once I opened the box and then made my first batch.  There was no plastic taste or any other chemical taste to my coffee.
Other reviews have stated their Brew Station leaked, but mine does not.  There is a little plastic arm that swings out over the coffee ground basket which dispenses the water.  I could see that if this arm was not swung out over the basket, it might leak out the back.  Also, the actual dispensing mechanism might be another place for leakage if there are coffee grounds or some object stuck between the valve and gasket so be sure to make sure this area has no coffee grounds in it prior to using.  Again, I have not had this problem and don't anticipate that I will as I am really careful to not get coffee grounds in the coffee reservoir and always make sure the arm is over the brewing basket.  
Others have mentioned that 8-12 cup filters don't fit this maker.  The manual does not state which size filter to use either.  I have found that 4-cup filters are a perfect fit for this maker and most likely what Hamilton Beach intended.  Walmart sells 200 of these filters for around one dollar.  If they aren't on the coffee aisle at Walmart, then check where the coffee makers themselves are sold as Walmart tends to sell things in multiple locations inside a store.  
Overall, I am very pleased with this maker especially considering the price.