ID: B00002N5W8-R78EM1Z9W51JN-AAPA4KQWA7UXN
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Mr-Heater-Double-Tank-Top-Propane
ReviewerID: AAPA4KQWA7UXN
ReviewerName: cvairag
Date: November 4, 2007
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Hot Item
Content:
The above reviews say it all. Not to be superfluous, I'll add a few points, mostly cautionary.
If your living in an alternative living space, need heat in an area with no central heating, or wish to save on the heating bill - yeah - this heater is the most economical, most powerful heat source I've found on the commercial market.
Lighting, as mentioned above is a somewhat dicey operation.  You must hold in the pressure release valve button, and hold the flame source to the heater simultaneously. You must keep holding the button for about 30 seconds after the burner has taken the flame until it is fully lit. To do this more easily, squat to the level of the heater, and face the side (not the rear) of the heater.  
And watch that your garments, jacket sleeves, etc., do not brush against or come to near the heater unit during operation. They can be easily singed. 
It heats up fast. In less than two minutes, a very cold area should heat up, especially if both burners are lit - I generally only use one burner. That's all I need for personal heat.  The other reviewers aren't kidding.  Do not have any object closer than a four foot radius from the heater and the area must be ventilated. I make a practice of never leaving the heater unattended. 
One liter of propane should keep you warm for at least a good 10 hours with one burner going.  I've often found myself turning the heater to the lower setting or entirely off after the area heats up.
The tank connection fitting screws into the tank counter-clockwise. To tighten, use a fairly substantial crescent wrench, with smooth jaws, as the fittings are brass and malleable. I don't recommend an extension, as it's one more fitting to worry about having a potentional leak.  Tighten the connection firmly, but don't get paranoid and overtighten.
A powerhouse piece of gear.  When the weather warms up, I disconnect the heater, and store the tank in a cool place, and if not emptied, on the floor, in an upright position.