ID: B000VDQ38E-R3TJX92UYE3UW5-A1OYELWLAFS4N1
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1OYELWLAFS4N1
ReviewerName: ebay ID: stylin*babies -  check out my items ...
Date: October 2, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 6
Rating: 1.0
Title: If you enjoy breathing clean air, do NOT buy this vacuum!!!
Content:
I own the Animal Dyson and have had it for 3 years now.  It has excellent suction and has never failed me.  I decided to buy this Bissell vacuum as I was tired of carrying the Dyson up and down the 3 levels of my house and wanted another vacuum that I could just keep on one level and something less expensive.  I read the reviews on this site and thought this was the best one to buy.  Well, after using the Bissell for 1 month, it does not compare with the Dyson.  The biggest issue I have with the Bissell is when you disconnect the hose to use the attachments, the tube which you are disconnecting it from on the vacuum, spits out dirt.  Yes, it actually spits out dirt particles.  The dirt that you just sucked up while vacuuming upright, is being blown out while you are using the hose!  If you haven't noticed it yet on your vacuum, take a closer look!  Being asthmatic, this vacuum is really bad!  Also, if you don't shove that hose back in as tight as you can into the vacuum when you are done using the attachments, it will pop out without you noticing, and everything that you are vacuuming upright just spits right out!  You have to constantly check that the hose is attached to the vacuum or you'll end up vacuuming again, not to mention all the dust flying particles in the air you are breathing in!  The next thing I noticed is the suction is poor.  In the upright position, put the hair catcher up (you'll know what I mean if you have one of these) and then try to suck up dirt along the edge of the floor and wall. It doesn't pick the dirt up! The Dyson picks it up along the edges without any problems!  The power you are feeling on the Bissell that you think is suction is the wheel brush rotating.  Ok, I'll give it a thumbs up on the fastest wheel brush rolling rotation but what good is it when the suction is not strong enough to pull it into the vacuum?  Ok, so you'll have nice cleaning track marks on your carpet from the brush rotation but the dirt is still there!  As always, you get what you pay for.  I will be returning the Bissell and buying another Dyson!!!!