ID: B000063XHI-R1FL4KF12BB5E9-
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Capresso-440-05-Electronic-Coffeemaker-Thermal
ReviewerID: 
ReviewerName: 
Date: August 12, 2002
Helpful: 47 of 48
Rating: 5.0
Title: The best coffeemaker I've ever owned
Content:
When I ordered the Capresso MT-500, I had mixed feelings. I'd never before bought a coffeemaker that cost more than [$$], and I was nervous about spending so much.  But at the same time, I was weary of the ongoing battle with calcification in my old Mr Coffee 'Accel' coffeemaker (we have very hard water here). Furthermore, the coffee never did taste all that great, and after two or three hours on the warming pad the last cup was guaranteed to taste burnt and bitter.In shopping for a new coffeemaker, my requirements therefore included both a thermal carafe and reasonable assurance that it would make decent coffee -- and that it would do so for at least a few years. Unfortunately, most of the reviews I read reported that the carafes were flimsy and broke, or failed to keep the coffee hot enough.The Capresso addressed all of these concerns and more, and everything about this coffeemaker says "quality."  There's a replaceable charcoal filter that goes in the reservoir to help remove chlorine and other impurities.  All of the metal surfaces that come into contact with water and/or coffee are stainless steel.  The electronic controls are straightforward and easy to understand, and the brew-through sealed carafe is virtually idiot-proof...  Moreover, the carafe, which has a stainless steel liner (not breakable glass), is very easy to keep clean.  The clock doesn't lose its settings during brief (&lt;10secs) power glitches (a continuing annoyance with the aforementioned and now idle Mr Coffee).  The Capresso is also very spiffy and attractive and looks great on our kitchen countertop.And did I mention it makes great coffee?  It does.  Although not absolutely essential, in my opinion, you will end up with hotter coffee -- and hot coffee for a longer period of time -- if you remember to pre-heat the carafe with some hot water for a few minutes before brewing.  Just be sure to remember to -empty- the carafe before you start the cycle!  Still, preheating isn't always practical, such as when you're using the automatic timer, and frankly, in my opinion the coffee's stayed hot enough for up to 3 hours even when I haven't prewarmed the carafe.  Today, using a prewarmed carafe, my last cup was acceptably hot nearly 4 1/2 hours after I first made it.I've been using my Capresso for a couple weeks now, and I have no regrets in shelling out premium dollars for a premium coffeemaker.  I'd definitely do so again.