ID: B000CRX6YI-R3UBPMXKSC65HL-AD8ZIWR0A6K0Q
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-70mm-3-5-4-5G
ReviewerID: AD8ZIWR0A6K0Q
ReviewerName: C J Campbell "Waddling Eagle"
Date: August 30, 2007
Helpful: 14 of 14
Rating: 5.0
Title: Remember when everyone wanted a Nikon? Well, Nikon is back!
Content:
I know. The D300 and D3 have been announced and I am just now writing my review of the D200, even though I have used it for more than a year. What can I say? I've been too busy taking pictures with the thing to spend time writing reviews.
This thing is tough. I have taken pictures in tropical typhoons, in rain forest, on beaches with blowing sand, on snow covered mountain tops, hanging out of an airplane window. It goes with me everywhere. Never a lost picture or hiccup. No blinking green light of death like the D70. This camera represents how Nikon made its name. A camera tough enough to go anywhere from black tie to jungle, and keep on performing.
Controls are laid out nicely. Yeah, there is an LCD on top and you have to take your eye away from the camera to see it, but it is repeated in the viewfinder. The viewfinder is bright and clear. The camera feels like an extension of your arm.
On the front of the camera you find the lens mount, preview buttons, a switch for focusing modes, and a port for a shutter release. Now, this camera does not use the handy little remote that is available for the smaller Nikon DSLRs. Instead, you have to hook up a remote to the shutter release port. Although it is more klunky, you do have more options.
The side has ports for USB 2.0. If you are smart, you will never use these and use memory card readers instead. Their real purpose is capture of images in real time onto a laptop if you are doing studio work.
The back has the LCD, of course. There is no image preview. You have to compose and focus using the optical viewfinder. This is true of all DSLRs of the D200's generation and it is still the best way to compose and focus even on cameras that do have Live View or Image Preview or whatever you want to call it. The reason is that holding the camera out at arm's length to view the LCD is not a very good way to hold the camera steady.
There are the typical playback and menu buttons, as well as a switch for choosing focusing mode and one for focus/exposure lock which also allows you to choose between spot, average, or 3D metering. On top you set multiple exposure modes (or timer), mirror lock-up to reduce vibration (as opposed to mirror lock-up for sensor cleaning), white balance, ISO, picture quality, mode, exposure bracketing, and on/off/LCD light. You typically adjust these by pressing the button and turning one of two wheels mounted on the back or the front of the camera at the top of the grip. It is slick and you can tell how much you are adjusting things simply by counting clicks. You never have to look at the settings if you don't want to.
The sensor is not self-cleaning. No camera of the D200's age has a self-cleaning sensor; however, it is hardly a necessity. There is a flash on top that can be used in commander mode to control off-camera strobes using the Creative Lighting System -- a fantastically flexible lighting system that rivals the best third party pro setups.
Nikon cameras are infamous for producing 'noise' in their pictures, but you have to wonder about people who seem to only shoot at ISO 2500 or above. You never did that with film and I suspect that a lot of people are using noise reducing algorithms to cover for their bad photography. The Nikon tells it like it is. It does not cover your tracks if you misuse it.
A lot has been said about battery life. Well, I have never been able to run down two batteries in a single day. The fact is, a set of batteries in an SB-800 flash will not last even a third as long as the battery in the camera. Batteries recharge quickly, so if you had three batteries and kept one on a charger all the time, you would be extremely unlikely to shoot fast enough to run out of batteries. The batteries should be recharged frequently and should not be allowed to be drained completely.
I find Nikon's color rendering to be the most pleasing and natural of any digital SLR. It is far more accurate than film.