ID: B00006F2MH-RHY6CG9ESICEM-A25EXP97NCHNTB
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB500BK-Grind-Brew-Black
ReviewerID: A25EXP97NCHNTB
ReviewerName: Becca "Critic"
Date: January 22, 2007
Helpful: 7 of 10
Rating: 1.0
Title: Horribly Disappointed
Content:
I love coffee. I am a bit of a fanatic really. I buy beans in bulk and drink about 1-3 pots of coffee a day. I thought having a grind and brew in one machine would be worth it. Not with this machine it isn't. 
The hopper gets steamed everytime I brew. That means I have to pull out the two piece hopper everytime to wash it. Unfortunately with the way the spout is shaped it is nearly impossibly to get all the coffee sludge out of there. It takes almost 15 minutes to scrub it out everytime. I have tried leaving the lid open after it finishes brewing to let the steam out hoping it would be easier to clean once the sludge was dry. That was not a good idea either. It just caked into the corners. I have already ruined my bottle brush trying to use that. And it sprayed coffee sludge all over the place too. I tried using my sponge but the filter just shredded that and I had to pick out pieces of sponge along with the coffee debris. It also doesn't do a very good job on grinding. Several times I have found beans still in the hopper. Of course they are useless now that they have been steamed so I have to throw them out along with the sludge they are stuck in. 
Just in case that wasn't bad enough the bottom of the grinder isn't water tight. That means that all the water that got in the grinder each time will leak out. Then it collects under the hopper in the machine base so after a few pots I have to scrub that out as well. That is horrible to clean as well. What is left is almost a coffee concentrate that you have to soak or chip off. But there is no room to manuever to get it clean. After all that is done you still have to dry it off to make another pot of coffee. And that is just for the grinder part of the machine. 
The goldtone filter is nice, it is what I used before. I got it at Kmart for $3. The lid that covers the brew basket is another piece of over complicated crap though. There are several nooks and crannies in it that need to be cleaned out, again everytime you brew a pot of coffee. The coffee sludge builds up in there as well. I've had to resort to using toothpicks and folded pieces of paper towels to get it clean and I am still not sure if I am actually getting it all out. There plastic is black and the nooks are small so I can't see if there is any old coffee still left in it. And after using the machine for a little more then a week the brew basket started popping out. About every third time I used it last week the basket would pop out and pour coffee all over the burner and my countertop. I have found no way to stop this from happening either. Or any real reason it is happening either. I have noticed though that it happens more often now. It is popping out every other time so I have to babysit the machine while it brews now. And it takes longer to brew then my old pot too. 
I've already noticed a flavor change in my coffee that makes me suspect that even after all the scrubbing I have done there is still old coffee in there. What is the point of having a filter for the water if the stupid machine holds old wet coffee grounds in it that are going to affect the taste of your coffee? As for the coffee itself it is weak. Very weak. I have used more beans to get stronger coffee but then I realized that I was using nearly twice as much as I used to with my old machine. At $10 a pound for coffee that is starting to hurt my wallet. 
So I spend more time cleaning, more time to brew, more money for extra coffee, and get a lower quality of brewed coffee each time that is only getting worse with every pot. After owning this machine less than three weeks I am taking it back tomorrow. A $12 coffee maker and a $10 grinder would make better coffee and be easier to use.