ID: B000TQEDE4-RPR2ML051YO23-A2HG8G820LVCWA
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1150BK-Programmable-Thermal-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A2HG8G820LVCWA
ReviewerName: Jen
Date: November 23, 2009
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 2.0
Title: Is the coffee worth the annoyance?
Content:
I spent a lot of time researching which coffee maker to buy, and at first loved this one.  Love the idea of a Carafe rather than a burner to keep my coffee hot and that it has a white option to match my kitchen.  Also love the 1-4 cup option which does help it turn out hotter.  However, it's been about a year since I bought it, using it several times a week, and it drives me crazy.  
Coffee tastes pretty good, but I eventually purchased paper filters since the permanent one wasn't worth the trouble to get clean.  (Not a huge problem, just thought you might want to know.)  For more than 4 cups, it's hot enough, but not quite as hot as I'd prefer since I use half and half.  There is a lot of condensation after you brew your coffee, so I feel I have to leave the top of the machine open all day for it to dry out enough -- and there is no partial open option as on my previous Cuisinart Filter Brew.  (Which, btw, I only stopped using because it was the wrong color for my kitchen.)  And, my biggest complaint, is that the top of the carafe is very poorly designed.  The coffee pours out in a trickle, even with the top all the way on as instructed.  Whenever I have guests, they think the coffee is gone, but, really, there is plenty .... it just doesn't pour well.   Also, for that reason, I never use the carafe to pour the water in before brewing... Takes too long, so I use a measuring cup for a larger batch or my travel mug when that's all I want.
Consumer Reports just came out with new Coffeemaker Ratings, and I am eagerly researching those to pick out a new coffee maker to purchase.  Number one on their list is Cuisinart Brew Central DCC-1200, but it doesn't have a thermal carafe.  The only other Cuisinart listed was rated #12 out of 36, and does have a thermal carafe, but it is more expensive and has THE LOWEST test results on "Carafe handling"!  Guess I'm ready to try a new brand. )-: