ID: B000VDQ38E-R1WWKR6JFHGMRP-AAA8I7KL7W23V
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: AAA8I7KL7W23V
ReviewerName: Stardusting
Date: February 14, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 1.0
Title: Poor Product Design, many problem areas
Content:
First the good: 1. it sucks well (when item 2 below is in check.)
Now the bad: 1. it is heavy in a bad way.  Your vacuuming arm supports the entire weight of the body.  The handle is positioned so that you have to be a muscle builder to not notice how the weight is poorly placed.  I love to vacuum, but not with this machine, it wears out my arm.
2. The attachment hose often comes off so after working hard to meticulously vacuum an entire room, I notice that the canister has nothting in it because the hose became detatched and impaired the suction so I have to re-vacuum the room. I'm already exhausted from the weight of the thing!
3. The attachment hose is difficult to get back on to the mount.  The mount is so close to the body and the hose has a weird bend in it so it is frustrating to get it on snuggly.
4. The canister that collects the debris is in a bad position so the debris builds up on top (over flows) and when you remove the canister to empty it, the stuff on top falls down on to your floor and on to the vacuum itself.   It's messy, I hate this.
5. The unit is top heavy so it falls over everytime I use the hose, no matter what.
6. The on/off switch is in the front, have to go hunting for it everytime.  Why not put it as a foot control or anywhere in plain sight?
7. The cord is a mile long and the holders are a foot apart (if that) so you have to wind the cord around the holders like 18 times.  Why not make the holders the length of the body so the cord wrap up goes quickly?
I just can't believe the Bissell designers could come up with so many design flaws...don't they have a list of certain criteria that people love and try to start with those basics for any vacuum design (on/off location, cord rewind, canister design, hose mount, weight distribution, etc.)  or don't they product test before mass production?