ID: B000ALGM24-RIRQK4MF4CYN-A2ZTD5VIUEAADK
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Hunter-44550-7-Day-Programmable-Thermostat
ReviewerID: A2ZTD5VIUEAADK
ReviewerName: A. Hargraves "toohottoholdonto"
Date: January 1, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: great product, a couple compaints
Content:
This thing does everything you could possibly want it to do.  I am pleased with this purchase, and it is additionally my first experience with a programmable thermostat.  I have owned this unit for about 3 months.  The device has definitely elecited savings on winter heating in a Michigan clime.  
Installation: a breeze.  I am fairly capable in this area, but expect a novice could handle it with few problems.  
OK, so here are my complaints.  After about a month the time falls behind by about five minutes, which requires readjustment.  This is kind of trivial, but I would assume that a digital thermostat would keep pretty good time, since that is the backbone of the entire operation of the unit.  (I didn't read this complaint anywhere else, but I would be surprised if this did not happen on other units.)  
Next, the removability of the unit is a great function because my thermostat is in a kind of inconvenient place if I had to stand there to program it.  That said, I wish there was some kind of protective back on the unit when removed from the wall.  All the circuitry is exposed when off the wall, and I was always worried about capicators breaking off by accident and such.
Lastly, the manual is verbose.  It's a short novel.  It is unnecessarily wordy, which made me worry if I was doing everything right.  I found the terse instructions on the flip-down panel to be adquate and almost never reference the manual when programming.  A bit of trial and error also helped with the programming experience, since, due to the plethora of programming options, it is a bit complex.  
There has been a complaint about failure of operation with heat pumps.  There is a selector switch on the back that is supposed to make the unit compatible with a heat pump, but I know nothing about heat pumps, so forgive me.  
Overall, at this price, I would buy it again, but that's not to say that something better doesn't exist.