ID: B00004R936-RMY293BTIZSYF-A2JKAKBYTOYLL6
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Melitta-MEMB1B-10-Cup-Coffeemaker-Black
ReviewerID: A2JKAKBYTOYLL6
ReviewerName: Californiagirl "californiagirl"
Date: February 21, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: No more spilled ground coffee!
Content:
This very same model has been reviewed by over 600 owners under the title Melitta MEMB1B Mill & Brew with a smaller price tag right here at Amazon, and in those reviews the coffee maker got an average of 4 stars. (Based on those reviews I bought this coffee maker 2 weeks ago). Interesting....
This coffee maker makes a good cup of coffee, but not if you use the quantity of beans they suggest in the manual. I use twice the amount (one of the measuring scoops- that comes with this package- per cup) and a finer grind than the default setting, and that works perfectly for me. I agree with other readers that paper filter machines make a better cup of coffee, but the difference is not huge. Filters will not work in this coffee maker, as the grinder blades are sitting in the drip basket. I would like this machine a lot better with a thermal, not glass carafe. Its not a big issue for me 'though. Also, the minimum amount of coffee breweing suggested is 4 cups (5 oz cups, that is- who ever came up with that standard measure for a cup of coffee, anyway- I think any coffee drinker has a 12 oz mug?)... so if you like to brew less, you should probably get the Melitta ME2TMB, but that one  does not have a mill. The ease and convenience of this  Melitta MEMB1B Mill & Brew make it a great buy. Not having to clean up spilled coffee grounds and coaxing stuck-on coffee out of a coffee mill every morning makes up for those things this coffee maker does not offer. It turns itself off after an hour, which is great if you are one of those people who returns to the house- after having left- to check if they turned off the coffee maker. Being able to set the machine to brew my coffee before the time I get up is just about as good as things can get! :)