ID: B000G2E66G-RRGG8NH5TJ6L8-A3J5W8Z67UDEPP
Category: AirConditioners
Product: Sharp-CV-P10LC-Portable-Air-Conditioner
ReviewerID: A3J5W8Z67UDEPP
ReviewerName: Bob
Date: March 29, 2007
Helpful: 1 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very Quiet!!! FIVE STARS if Bucketless Design works as advertised...
Content:
(3 stars for quiet design, 2 more stars if it will remove condensation via the vent hose and not require a bucket or water draining during AC operation)
(3/29/07 update: Ran the Sharp for 3+ hours and the unit expelled most of the condensate out the vent hose as the internal tank only had 2-3 ounces of water collected.)
Picked up the Sharp CV-P10MC 10,000BTU @ Costco recently however the weather has not been warm enough here in the NW to thoroughly test the unit out yet.
The unit is indeed very quiet however I'm concerned that it may require regular draining of collected condensed water during AC operation as my short 30 minute test collected 4-5 ounces of water. (I have a Windchaser portable AC unit that never seems to collect more a few drops and never stopped because it needed draining or required draining)
 
Sharps manual states it removes up to 60 pints of water a day in Dehumidification mode only, which requires regular draining of the internal collection tank (4-5pint capacity) or the attachment of an external bucket for longer uninterrupted operation.
In AC mode, Sharp's website and manual states:
"Bucketless Design. No water tank to empty.  
The built in condensate disposal system sends the water out of the exhaust hose. "
"This air conditioner evaporates water condensed during cooling operation within the unit through the exhaust air outlet. Although water flowing sound way be heard, this is normal."
 
I assume the Sharp AC unit will not require and external water collection bucket or internal water tank draining when run in AC mode only.
My Windchaser portable AC unit (purchased last year)never once needed any condensate water drained during the whole season. The Windchaser manual states that it removes the condensed water through the air vent hose via an evaporation process that also cools the internal compressor unit. I assume this is the same type of process Sharp is referring to in its manual however the proof is in real life use.
 
To anyone who has used the Sharp portable AC unit last season; Please report back and let us know if it removes condensate water via the vent hose in AC mode and DOES NOT require you to stop the unit to drain water on a regular basis or require an external water collection bucket.
 
Thanks!