ID: B000GTR2F6-R6QUA2H96151R-AQKU9LDOX815I
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Platinum-Single-Cup-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: AQKU9LDOX815I
ReviewerName: Bret Daline
Date: April 19, 2009
Helpful: 10 of 30
Rating: 1.0
Title: A machine that squirts hot water thru expensive coffee
Content:
I got the Keurig B70 Gourmet Single Cup Home Brewing System for my birthday. For $159 the B70 really does not do much.
The B70 has a nice blue LCD that displays some silly and un-needed information like announcing that water is needed or the water is hot, or the water is cold. The B70 has a transparent water tank that is lit up with a blue LED. The machine looks cool on your counter when the kitchen lights are out. That is the best thing about the B70. 
In addition to looking cool, the B70 will squirt preheated water through a capsule that costs several times as much as the coffee inside ought to cost. 
Yes, it is said to be 'gourmet' coffee that you end up with, but tell me what is 'gourmet' about shooting water that has been keep hot for several days or hours though a plastic capsule full of coffee that was ground who knows how long ago has been sitting encapsulated for who knows how long?
A 'Green' machine it is not. The water is kept hot all of the time, so the heater is kicking on and off, and the pretty blue lights are going all the time, so it enlarges your carbon footprint. The plastic capsules, one for every cup, end up in the landfill. Those capsules will probably last a couple of centuries. You could turn the machine off to save energy, bu then you would just have to wait to heat the water when you want a cup, and that waiting defeats the whole purpose of the machine.
Using the reusable capsule with your own coffee is a pain because first you have to find it, unscrew the top and clean out the grounds from last time. Between washing the grounds out and filling it up, of course coffee grounds spread everywhere. Again, that defeats the whole premise of the machine.
Get a teapot, some #1 or #2 Melitta filters, a holder, and some Starbucks ground coffee. Doing a cup or two at a time with this setup will be almost as fast, cost less, reduce your footprint, the coffee will be better and you can buy an entire collection of gourmet coffee with the hundred bucks you save. Also, the teapot can be put in your cupboard when you are done, unlike the B70, which is rather large and probably won't fit anywhere except on your counter.