ID: B000FFRYYK-R22TGPJEV8ORZ2-AM5VAYE0S0A25
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: BTX-B-ThermoFresh-10-Cup-Thermal-Carafe-Coffee
ReviewerID: AM5VAYE0S0A25
ReviewerName: R. Angeli
Date: April 6, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 8
Rating: 1.0
Title: Very Disappointing...
Content:
The minimum amount this will brew is 20 ounces - per the Bunn's own instructions.  What if I want "just" 10 ounces or 12 ounces or 16 ounces?  
And have fun finding 20 ounce tumblers; mine were all 16 ounces so I had to locate and buy new 20 ounce tumblers just to "enjoy" the minimum amount this thing will brew.
There is no "pause and serve" feature, which most coffee makers costing one-fourth as much have.
The brewed coffee quantity wasn't consistent - despite the fact that I always poured the same 20 ounces of water into the machine.  Sometimes I'd get 18 ounces of coffee and other times I'd get 22 ounces.  (The machine uses a hot water reservoir volume of water in addition to what's poured into it for the brew cycle fill.)
I had to use a measuring cup to fill it, since there's no filling window or any type of measuring device in this expensive unit.
The biggest joke is Bunn's recommendation that you fill the stainless steel carafe with HOT WATER and then dump it out in order to "pre-heat" it before setting it back into the unit and brewing the coffee.  LOL.  Are they SERIOUS?  The coffee wasn't all that hot unless I did this.  And frankly, I DON'T WANT TO BE BOTHERED WITH DOING THIS AT 6:00 AM!
And oh, by the way, there's no timer, no clock and the unit keeps the water in the reservoir at 200 degrees F ALL THE TIME.  I bet that's wonderful for the electric bill!  Perhaps it would be worth it if the coffee were REALLY hot, but it simply isn't.
Another "oh by the way."  The brew "switch" is integrated into the reservoir filling lid, which means the lid has to remain OPEN (and interfere with cabinets in many cases) after it's filled and prior to brewing (e.g. overnight).  It's anyone's guess as to what might crawl in there during the overnight hours.
I lived with mine for 6 weeks before finally reaching the point of complete disgust.  Thankfully, I was able to return it and get a full refund.  I bought a $42 Hamilton Beach model that's LOADED with features and brews coffee that's every bit as good as the Bunn.
Do NOT buy one of these.  I recently discovered that Bunn has discontinued this model and now I know why.
Many of my comments apply to ALL Bunn models, though - a fact which will prevent me from ever buying another one.