ID: B0002OZXHO-R3CBADMCE509LZ-A3EKLO0WDCM01F
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-White-M9282LL-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A3EKLO0WDCM01F
ReviewerName: L. Wimberley "photography student"
Date: February 27, 2005
Helpful: 5 of 16
Rating: 5.0
Title: Heck, I would've PAID for this...
Content:
You know that FreeiPods site everyone bugs you to join?  I did, and successfully got a FREE ipod through it.  Unbelieve as it sounds, the little 20 gig iPod is on my desk right now hooked up to my speakers playing as a standalone unit.
This thing is AMAZING.  I have just about my entire CD collection fit onto it, and you know what percent I am at towards the capacity limit?  ONE PERCENT.  It really is mind boggeling that I could add 10 of my friends CD collections on here in addition to my own and it STILL wouldn't be filled.  The sound quality is amazing, but keep in mind the sound is only going to be as good as your files are.  If you illegally download crappy 92kb files, they are going to replay as crappy 92kb files.  Songs that you purchase and import from iTunes sound outstanding, rich and full.
The headphones that came along with it look pretty dinky, but once you get used to the fit of them in your ears, they sound out of this world for being included in the package.
I think the feature I love the most is that I am able to plug in my Harman Kardon Soundstick computer speakers into the top of the iPod and listen to it just like I would be listening to a standalone CD Stereo System without having to have the computer on.  My entire CD collection is right here at my fingertips.  
Aside from music storage and playing, I LOVE that I can use this a essentially a portable harddrive.  If you're in college like I am, you have to write papers and etc.  You can drop your files on here from your home computer, go to school and hook it up to a computer there and get the files off of the iPod without having to burn CD's or put them on faulty flash drives or zip discs.
This is not only an invaluable item, but really one of the best technological advancements entertainment has seen in the past few years.  I HIGHLY reccommend purchasing one.  Mine was free, but I still would pay for one, it is worth that much in value.