ID: B000IOTREI-R1ZJ2T2ZNQOWRV-A3ON015NJ0HPQ0
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Presto-HeatDish-Plus-Footlight-Parabolic
ReviewerID: A3ON015NJ0HPQ0
ReviewerName: R. J. Scanlan III
Date: October 16, 2007
Helpful: 20 of 23
Rating: 3.0
Title: Point Heat Anywhere You Want it -- Except Where You Want It.
Content:
"Point Anywhere" is very misleading. As-sold unit MUST be placed in a low spot below the "target". It is ONLY capable of heating at 60 degree angle upward. It is too light to be stable, way too easy to knock over. I think out of the box it is unsafe. I have made modifications to mine.
I see this thing in BJ's and Costco all the time, mounted up high on a shelf pointed down, and the kiosk says "Directional Heat! Point Instant Heat Anywhere You Want It!" 
So you open up the box and right there in the WARNING is Do not mount on shelf. Do not point downward. Which is exactly what the Presto demo stands do in the store..? They mount the heater on a high shelf and point it down at the customers. Do you think it would be wise to put this on the floor in the store the way it MUST be used at home? You would think that was unsafe, kids would mess with it, people would inevitably trip over it or kick it over.. So the Presto demonstration display disables the safety shutoff switch and does exactly what the instructions say not to do, mounting it high, pointing it down. You'd think that might be one way of using it, since it says "Point Anywhere". False advertising?
The unit HAS to go below you pointed up. Pretty much that means it has to be on the floor. Instructions also say do not use near dogs, cats, children, curtains, furniture etc.. In other words, do not use in typical household environment. Our dog knocked it over frequently because it's just stupid-easy to knock over. Imagine a large standard 3-speed desk fan, only you can just ever so lightly bump into it and it topples over. It's featherlight, unevenly proportioned and topheavy, a trip hazard, and has no base weight AT ALL to stabilize it.
I bought this to warm my dad while he sits at his computer or watches television, intending to place it safely on a clear bureau or dresser to provide ambient heat. Best I can do now is stick it on the floor and bake the tops of his knees. As it was out of the box in our case, it was useless.
There is a large spring-loaded switch under the base, it's easily bypassed. You can do it with scotch tape. NOT RECOMMENDED, but this allows you to point it "anywhere" including a down-angle as the in-store demo clearly does. I built an angled wooden platform, put a brick inside it to add weight, and screwed the heater down. Now I can aim it where I want, and it doesn't fall over. Problem solved.
Aside from the fact you can't really aim it where you want it, it does everything else you'd expect it to. Doesn't get too hot to the touch, provides EXCELLENT heat in the target zone, and saves you a lot of money by quickly and consistently heating a particular spot rather than trying to heat an entire area. Just don't trip over it.