ID: B00064LNEM-RYJR7DZ3FREQO-A2AUZEQ4XUFVS6
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Hamilton-Beach-43254-Ensemble-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A2AUZEQ4XUFVS6
ReviewerName: V. Wright "mmoon"
Date: February 1, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great full-featured coffee maker
Content:
I ordered this coffee-maker in March of 2009, which makes it almost a year old now. It's a great coffee-maker, very attractive and works perfectly, and I have no complaints other than one very minor one. I brew two pots a day, every single day, occasionally more, so it's gotten a lot of useage. It makes delicious, rich and full flavored coffee, does not leak or dribble, clock works fine and so does brew timer ( for setting a time for automatic start), and was very easy to set up and use the first time out of the box ( I didn't even read the instruction booklet for over a month..heehee ). 
One of the best features of this coffee maker to me is that the warming ( heating ) plate under the carafe does not skin, scar, peel, nor rust, which I have had several coffeemakers with those problems. I also love that it takes regular cheapy paper bowl type filters instead of the pricey cone ones. My one very minor complaint I menioned is related to this, however, and that is that just occasionally I get a filter that folds up ( corner or sides of filter not staying erect ) while the pot is brewing which causes a few coffee grounds to get into the pot or your cup. I solved this simply by always using a Maxwell House plastic with mesh "permanent" filter ( I already had one on hand, but they are just a few bucks in the grocery store ) and I just put the paper filter inside it. I buy cheap store bowl filters which are rather thin and floppy, so that may have something to do with it, too.  Although using the permanent filter AND a paper filter may be double filtering one's coffee, I can tell no difference in the taste which is still rich and full flavored. I did try using just the Maxwell House type permanent filter but it did not produce a coffee to suit me. ( It could also be solved, I think, by buying the stiffer unbleached bowl filters, however they run a bit higher in price.) I just rinse the black plastic permanent filter after each pot and pop in a fresh white paper bowl type filter. ( large - up to 12 cup size). I have had no problem with leakage or anything as to the "first cup" feature ( getting yourself a cup before the pot is fully done brewing ) as a couple others said they experienced. All in all, this has been a super coffee-maker and I would recommend it highly.