ID: B000AQSMPO-R2XOVBQ79ZE6FA-A2DSHZJFZNALK
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-B60-Special-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing
ReviewerID: A2DSHZJFZNALK
ReviewerName: Eric Sarjeant
Date: January 4, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Perfect Push-Button Coffee
Content:
This unit replaces a Cuisinart Grind & Brew coffee maker. While it was a convenient machine, it was extremely difficult to keep clean and with only one regular coffee drinker in the house it had limited value.
The Keurig brews a single cup of coffee in about a minute. My unit included a set of sample coffees and they are all quite good, although my plan is to use the "My K-Cup" to brew my own coffee. 
There is a built-in clock and timer, which may not sound important but it will let you warm-up the coffee machine and have it automatically turn off after a period of inactivity. This allows you to have the machine ready at 6AM and right before you hop in the car you can push a button and get a cup of coffee. Without the warm-up cycle, you may need to wait a minute or two before you can start brewing.
Counter space can be maximized especially if you have a corner spot where you can place this. Filling up the water reservoir is straightforward, and unlike a traditional coffee maker there really should be no need to pull the Keurig forward since the water can be poured from the front.
Cleanup is a breeze, the drip-tray can be easily removed for hand-washing along with the water reservoir. The K-Cup holder can also be removed for occasional cleanup. 
So far my only gripe is the My K-Cup has proved difficult to load correctly. The results from brewing my own coffee has produced watery cups with some aftertaste. Variations in the amount of coffee grinds has produced considerable grades of flavor, and I'm worried this might not be something I can master.
In terms of the machine itself, the water reservoir can be a little tricky to remove and comes out best when done slowly. I know this was a popular holiday gift a few years ago, but I'm glad I waited to have a machine that will accept my own coffee and uses an extremely popular standard cup (K-Cup).