ID: B0000SWAC8-R35THVQJ9W6WB0-AT4G86Y9YOALU
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL6988D-Oxygen3-Canister-Cleaner
ReviewerID: AT4G86Y9YOALU
ReviewerName: Amy's Husband
Date: December 13, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 3.0
Title: Decent vacuum; compact; not made like they used to be
Content:
I'm rough on vacuums, and picky.  This unit is good, but not great.
The good:  Compact; reasonably good airflow; reasonably reliable (aside from nits below); on-off switches and cord rewind buttons are easy to get at, but flush with surface of vacuum so it's hard to turn them off and on accidentally.  I like the light weight and easy maneuverability of this unit.  Bags are easy enough to change.  I like the canister style because I vacuum under things a lot, and I stick the bare wand (with or without a dusting attachment) behind and between furniture and walls.  I also like to put on the dusting attachment and use the vacuum to suck up cobwebs.  Uprights just can't touch this unit's ability to get into tight spots.  Unlike some reviewers, I like the pressure-fit attachments (which lack extra buttons or latches to secure them).  I just press hard when I put them on.
The bad:  Plastic wand is rickety enough that I can feel it flex as I vacuum (yes, I push hard); rug beater chews up the edges and corners of rugs; cheap plastic hose tends to buckle; air leaks at various points, reducing suction; wheels sometimes come off the floor attachment, leading to under-sofa searches :-); cord is a bit short, but not atypical (I just hate plugging and unplugging vacuums).
Overall:  What I like about this unit is that it works pretty well for something as light and compact as it is.  I think Electrolux can do better, though, with the rug beater, easily bent hose, and rickety wand.  A little Japanese-style incremental improvement to this product would go a long way.
If you have extra money, and want something light, maneuverable, and easy to move around - and are careful with the rug beater (esp. if you have carpet with a fringe or tassels) - it's not a bad choice.