ID: B000EPNB52-RFLBRT597YATY-AQ93SGEI1YDK4
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-nano-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: AQ93SGEI1YDK4
ReviewerName: Matt Montoya
Date: March 3, 2006
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 4.0
Title: iPod Nano 2GB
Content:
Lots of people write reviews of this product just to see it on amazon, even if they don't have an iPod, so I'd like you to know that I have this exact iPod and have had it for about a month.
Pros:
Design: Small, thin, sleek with a nice chrome back
Flash Memory: For those of you who don't know the difference between a flash-drive and a hard-drive, flash drives are smaller, more durable, and have less of a chance of freezing up, but hard drives can hold way more space. This iPod Nano has flash memory.
Good headphones: Nice, good-looking and comfortable.
Sound quality: Not the best, but good.
Controls: Easy to learn, and fun to use.
Games: Surprisingly fun. It comes with "Breakout" or what they call "Brick". "Parachute", which is shooting people parachuting in the army. "Solitaire", and the strangely fun "Music Quiz". I have heard rumors of apple making games to download to iPod from the internet.
Photos: Good feature and album art displays. You can browse pictures while listening to music
iTunes: Perhaps the best music software
Bright color screen: Beautiful screen
Accessories: They are everywhere
Screen Lock: Nice feature, but basically useless.
Cons:
Durability: Screen scratches easily. I recommend either getting a case or keeping the plastic on it
Design: Blemishes show up on the black version very easily
No voice recording: Many Mp3 player have that. It's the 21st century
No FM radio: once again, many Mp3 player have that. It's the 21st century
Battery Life: good if you just play music, but if you do alot of navigating, it could be better.
No dedicated volume: Not good if your buried in the menus, but a minor flaw.
Headphone jack is on the bottom: I think it was put there because the screen was in the way for the top.
Could come in more colors: The Zen Micro comes in 10 colors
Last and most certainly least,
False advertising: Not exactly 2 gigs, it is about 1.83. It wouldn't bother me that much if it was 1.95 or 96, but it was hard enough for me to choose which 1.60 out of my 3.60 gigs to not put on this, put I found out I had to choose 0.17 more gigs, but I got over that. The advertising rates 500 song, but I filled mine up at about 330 (alot of my songs are past 10 minutes and go all the way up to 30 minutes).
Overall I am very pleased with the iPod Nano. I would have got the Zen Micro (about the same price, but over twice the memory), but it isn't sold in stores and I didn't want to use a credit card. I think the Nano is the best sold in stores, but if your looking for the best anywhere, checkout the Zen Micro.