ID: B00006LHO7-R3M4LBHVAMP8TU-A1FT5VYMPC1YII
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Labs-Jukebox-Player-Firewire
ReviewerID: A1FT5VYMPC1YII
ReviewerName: Rob Jameson
Date: December 13, 2006
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: one year and (knock wood) no problems
Content:
Any headphone jack or cheap headphone issues must have been resolved by the end of 2005, I've seen no signs of jack trouble and the 'phones included were made by Sennheiser (I've worked in radio & recording studios for 30+ yrs and Sennheiser is the industry standard).
The Software complaint is still legitimate, By all means save yourself the trouble and download Red Chair's Notmad, it's a user-friendly dream. (the only thing Creative's software is good for is overwriting a previously loaded but corrupt track with a fresh copy).
If you want cover art jpgs or video, you're not serious about the music, so buy something else. If you want a handy palm-sized box that'll hold as much music as you can cram into it, you'll have a hard time filling the 60gig model to it's capacity, especially if you convert 128kbps MP3s to 81kbps WMAs. The quality difference is negligible to most human ears and so far I'm right at ten thousand songs and only one third of the way to full.
The fact that Stop and Power on/off are the same button is a bit of an odd design choice, but it hasn't created any operational troubles. If you dont want to hear a track, just toggle the forward key and jump past it.
As for breakdown issues, I'll cross my fingers and report after one year not problem one. I did buy a two year full replacement warranty just in case and everything is backed up twice in both MP3 and WMA form, but so far that's just assuaging my personal paranoia. I use this beautiful toy every day and often sleep with it playing and for my money, it's the coolest and handiest gadget since the internet itself. 
Now I'm wondering how long I should wait before I buy a replacement battery as an emergency backup.
This unit is a nice pairing with JBL's 'On Tour' external speaker set as well, (unless you have an unhealthy need for earsplitting volume over crystal clarity).