ID: B0007Y6BO8-RROQ42EQWKIR1-A3RDWS5R76XMN1
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Krups-FME2-14-12-Cup-Coffeemaker-Carafe
ReviewerID: A3RDWS5R76XMN1
ReviewerName: Alex @ The Hungry Masses "AH"
Date: February 18, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 3.0
Title: Lasted just over two years, with problems.
Content:
I'll start by saying that we are coffee people; but also people on a tight graduate school budget. So I bought this Krups coffee maker to replace our Melitta coffee maker which worked (performing at an average level) for four years. We spent about fifty bucks for this Krups model in June 2007, and while I wasn't expecting a life-changing cup of coffee, this machine was frustrating from the start with its little idiosyncrasies.  
First of all, the coffee was fine..not great, but fine. We use good beans and a burr grinder. HOWEVER, the warming plate was MUCH TOO HOT. If we left the pot on, it was absolutely scorched after 15 minutes. To fix this, my hubby placed three pennies on the plate, disbursing some of the heat and keeping it pleasantly warm. 
The other pain in the neck issue was that this pot dribbles coffee everywhere!! Just as previous reviewers have stated, unless you pour very slowly and carefully, liquid will run all over the place (particularly inconvenient when you're trying to quickly fill the reservoir with water to get the brewing started).
After about a year, the programming system basically stopped working. "On" and "off" worked fine enough until last week when (after 2.5 years of use) the machine just gave out. 
The pros: for 50 bucks, I suppose we got our money's worth over 2.5 years, considering we brew coffee about 200 days out of the year. And the "pause and serve" function is a nice touch. 
But I hated the fact that I had to warn guests every time they reached to pour themselves a cup of coffee..."Hey, make sure you pour slowly or..." (by the time I got halfway through the sentence, there's coffee all over the counter and the floor.)  
So now I'm using my french press (which never fails to perform) until I decide on a new coffee maker.