ID: B000A7JKTA-RWQ3JPX7CAXRG-AO4U294A4JGYJ
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Konica-Minolta-Maxxum-Digital-18-70mm
ReviewerID: AO4U294A4JGYJ
ReviewerName: Jonathan W.
Date: March 19, 2006
Helpful: 78 of 82
Rating: 5.0
Title: Extraordinary DSLR Camera For Wannabe Pros (or real ones)
Content:
This DSLR is as good as it gets in the "Pro-sumer" (advanced amateur...wannabe pro) category.  The Konica Minolta Maxxum 5D  is as good (or better) than all the others in its class (e.g, Nikon and Canon) but comes with the anti-shake feature. It is also among the least expensive in its class.  Get it while you still can.
This camera is for experienced digital photography enthusiasts, or technological savvy folks who are sure that's where they are headed.  You can set it to "auto" and point-and-shoot the Maxxum 5D (also know as Dynax 5D internationally) and you'll get  perfect shots nearly all the time.  But if that's all you want to do, this camera is not for you.  
By the way, it would be foolish to buy this (or any other DSLR) camera as a starter camera (even if you have the money). This camera is best for those with some experience who want to be creative and view digital photography as a serious hobby or maybe even a part-time source of income.  Even though you can by-pass the hundreds of alternative settings on the 5D, it would be a shame to have them an not use them at least some time. 
If you have any Minolta (aka Konica -Minolta)lens or other accessories from your old film-based SLR, then this camera is a no brainer, as they will all work in this camera too.  By the way, there is no reason to buy the higher end Konica Minolta 7-D, unless you are a pro with lots of extra money. Its bigger, more expensive and has only one or two more features than this one. 
The big negative issue that you'll note elswhere in these reviews is that the Konica-Minolta corporation will no longer be making cameras over the coming year...though the multi-billion dollar conglomerate will be around for many years to come to honor its warranties.
I recently bought this camera and a [...] rebate was in place.  You might expect to see more of this as Konica Minolta gets out of the camera business.  But even now, given this camera's fine reputation, they are getting harder to find.
It is likeley that Sony (who purchased rights to Konica-Minolta's camera technology) will make this camera the basis of their new Sony namplate DSLR model line in coming months since it is a winner.  But even if they do not, many third parties make lens that fit this camera and you can purchase extra warranties from third parties as well.
If you buy this or any other DSLR, be sure to buy several 512MB or 1-2 GB compact flash cards to take advantage of the larger JPEG or "raw" image size it outputs (sometimes 5 shots at at a time, since like the pros, you can click once to get multiple action shots.)  Tigerdirect always seems to have the best deals and rebates on flash cards. You will also need a flash card reader.  Don't mess with connecting this or any camera directly to your PC. 
Speaking of Mega-Pixels, anything over 6MP is overkill, unless you are going to make nothing but room size posters. 
If you'e never owned an SLR or DSLR before, they are not pocket cameras (you should get one of those first by the way); So you will need to be comfortable lugging the DSLR camera and at least one extra lens (you will likely want a telephoto zoom - I recommend a 200 or 300mm zoom) around.  
The most innovative DSLR case on the market is Lowepro's new slingshot 200 backpack.  A must if you have more than one lens, or if you have any other paraphernalia. The slingshot recenly won several well-deserved ergonmic design awards.  (I got a good deal on one via the Amazon marketplace).
I hope all this input helps, whether or not you buy the Konica-Minolta Maxxum 5D.  Happy shooting!!