ID: B000A33B1C-RRCPCPFPILX3V-A195DQEW9AWVAT
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Delonghi-TRD0715T-Safe-Oil-Filled-Radiator
ReviewerID: A195DQEW9AWVAT
ReviewerName: T. Long "J Long"
Date: December 21, 2008
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 4.0
Title: excellent heaters
Content:
I recently purchased the Delonghi TRD0715T and the Vornado DVTH heaters.  So I can compare them.  They are both excellent heaters.  You simply need to decide what is best for your application.  Between the Delonghi and the Vornado, the Delonghi may be the better value based on price.  They were both just right for where I put them.  
They both have thermostats.  The Vornado DVTH has a digital readout that gives you both the temperature at which you have set the thermostat and the current temperature of the air it is pulling in the back of the heater.  That's convenient.  The Delonghi is a guesswork thermostat.  You set a manual dial that has no numbers, and there is a simple process for setting it to current room temperature when you decide the room is at the right warmth.  You'll figure out where it should be set for a few different temperatures with a couple of days of use and I suppose you could make your own marks on the dial once you've done it a few times.  
I have placed the Delonghi in one of the bedrooms of an old farmhouse that does not have forced air heat.  I wanted something silent there and a radiator rather than a blower.  The Delonghi is an oil filled radiator.  It has a 24 hour clock that lets you turn the heater on and off any number of times during the day.  The on-line description might lead you to believe that you can have it heat to different thermostat settings at different times - but that is not the case with this unit - it's either on or off.  When it's on, it maintains a fairly even heat, since it is oil filled.  The oil gives the heater a lot of thermal inertia so that when the thermostat cycles off and back on, the heater doesn't have to warm up from dead cold.  The Delonghi puts out efficient heat and I have no qualms about leaving it in the house unattended.  It does get hot on the highest setting (there are three settings).  On high, it's too hot to touch for more than a few seconds, but that is not an issue for me or where I have placed it.  It won't burn you if you touch it briefly.  I like this heater.  It's efficient and works as advertised.  
The "clicking" that some have complained about in the Delonghi is a non-issue.  The thermostat makes a barely audible click when it cycles on or off.  The unit also makes a louder sharp click as it goes from cold to hot after you first turn it on.  It's the kind of noise something makes as it heats up and expands and the structural joints move a little - and is not the thermostat cycling.  My house makes that kind of noise when it goes through a temperature change.  The Delonghi only does that when you first turn it on and it is heating up.  Once it is warm and has stabilized at the set temperature, that stops.  
I also like the Vornado, though I thought it a little on the expensive side.  With that said, I'd probably buy another if I wanted another unit that blows air.  The best feature about the Vornado DVTH is the controls that allow you to set the thermostat at a number.  If you are concerned about hot surfaces, it is one of the best units you'll find.  I also put this unit at the farm house in an area where I wanted it to push warm air through a part of the house.  The Vornado fan runs whenever the heater is on.  It runs at a low level when the heating element is off and faster when it is on.  Since it monitors the temperature of the air it is pulling in, it also maintains a fairly even heat.  
Both of these are excellent heaters.
So why not 5 stars?  I guess I'm waiting for perfection.  If the Delonghi had a digital thermostat that worked, it would have 5 stars.  If the Vornado cost $25 less, it would have five stars.