ID: B00006F2MI-R12S4T1R73ZW2C-A3KF4CXPSB3PCN
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Grind-Brushed-Chrome
ReviewerID: A3KF4CXPSB3PCN
ReviewerName: Mitch
Date: June 7, 2006
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Excellent Coffeemaker
Content:
This pot makes an excellent cup of coffee, but it has some design limitations that if you are aware of them, can still result in a great pot of coffee.
The Grind and Brew grinds beans and immediately brews them into fresh coffee that stores in the thermal carafe. It has a charcoal filter that is replaceable and markedly improves the flavor of my coffee given my chlorinated municipal water supply (tap water) that I use daily.
Here are some tips that may help in your purchase decision or improve your ownership experience. First of all, the grinder is a pain to clean and is really only convenient if you make one pot a day. Secondly, if you want your coffee to stay warm for several hours, you need to preheat the carafe by filling it with warm tap water, letting it sit for several minutes, then emptying it out and immediately brewing thereafer. As far as complaints that the coffee is too weak, when I use ten scoops of beans for 10 cups of water using the supplied measure, the coffee is more than strong enough. You must also use "fresh" beans - if the coffee package has been open more than a week or two, the beans oxidize somewhat and some flavor is lost. I generally re-seal my beans daily using my foodsaver device and a plastic container. Not an absolute must, but helps the flavor. If all this sounds like alot of work - it isn't that bad. The gold filter is fine, but paper filters are easier to clean and don't diminish the flavor whatsoever. Everyone who drinks my coffee really complements the coffeemaker and both my parents and inlaws now own one and are very satisfied - but you have to appreciate the limitations.
Finally, there is a design flaw where the grinder device sometimes gets stuck. Don't know why it happens and cuisinart really should address this, but it has not really impaired my enjoyment of this coffeemaker significantly.
If I were to improve it, I would switch to a cone filter design which I believe generally makes a better cup. Hope this helps.