ID: B000NVXF26-RBYVF9K10QW9T-A125BS7Z9JUQRR
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Digital-Stabilization-14-42mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A125BS7Z9JUQRR
ReviewerName: Matthew
Date: December 29, 2009
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 3.0
Title: 3.5/5 This camera is perfect for me, but does have some issues.
Content:
I bought the E-510 because it came with two lenses, was very light-weight and came with a live-view LCD screen, and dust sensor. Well, I got what I wanted! I bought it used and it seemed in perfect condition.
I do everything on manual because I love control, and I haven't used any of its automatic settings, so my review is based on the manual performance of the camera. The picture quality is fine, and seems to take sharp pictures if you have it focused just right. The live view LCD screen is a god-sent, I have no idea why everyone hates it; I'm always using it! You can see how bright or dark your picture will turn out (but it won't show it exactly if it's too dark or too bright etc), where your focus is (you can zoom in 10 times to see if you focused correctly, which is awesome), and you don't have to look through that tiny viewfinder. Screw viewfinders, LCD screen all the way. I have almost nothing to complain about liveview, except it has a lot of trouble trying to display the focus when it's dark. In fact, I find it impossible to manually focus during the night, and I have to rely on auto focus ... which isn't that great in low light situations.
Anyways, the camera works and I got what I wanted. There is one thing that bugs the hell out of me though; hot pixels, or 'stuck pixels'. If you leave the camera on for too long, or you are taking long exposure shots, you WILL get random pixels on your pictures that stand out like a sore thumb. The longer the exposure, the more pixels you get. I mainly use my camera for studio shots, which means I have the camera on for like at least 2 hours. Eventually random pixels that are pure white or yellow will show up in the final picture. I figured it wasn't that bad, it just means I can't leave my camera on for too long. Unfortunately, they have also shown up at random when the camera was JUST turned on after being off for a week. Seeing as I see no one else with this problem, I'm assuming it's because I've used the camera a lot and it's aging, or I just happened to have gotten a bad camera. Even so, it's an issue future E-510 owners should know; hot pixels are a problem with this camera.
The camera is actually really bad in low light settings. It can't focus worth a damn when it's dark, so don't even try. Which means you have to do it manually, which isn't that great either on the live-view, so try the viewfinder instead. Flash sucks, as with all DSLR on-board flash, but I find that the ISO really isn't that bad. Just turn on the noise-reduction in-camera and put the ISO up to 800. You can see some noise at 800, but at least you can take in-door shots for your family without using flash. At night 800 is fine too. At 400 ISO you can't really tell if there is any noise, but you might sometimes see it in the shadows. 1600 should be done for snapshots, as it will get grainy and noisy. Either way, I'd rather use ISO than the flash.
While it seems I think this is a bad camera, I am only mentioning its shortcomings and faults. It's a good camera for me to use, however I could have done without the hot pixels problem. The camera is good for me, because it's compact, small, light to carry around, has live view, two lenses, a sensor dust cleaner and the picture quality is just fine. There's also image stabilization in camera, but I haven't seen it make a difference ... at all.
If you think you'll do a lot of night shots, don't buy this camera. If you're going to use auto focus all the time, don't buy this camera. If you're really afraid of those random pixels appearing on your images, don't buy this camera (although they're not that hard to edit out). However, if you are looking for something that works great manually, has a live-view screen and the picture quality is good, go ahead and buy this one!
I give this camera a 3.5/5 stars. Would have gotten a 4 if it wasn't for the hot pixels problem.