ID: B00005UP2E-R1TT06J0B5MOQL-A1IXN81TD7H8G8
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dirt-Devil-082500-Bagless-Canister
ReviewerID: A1IXN81TD7H8G8
ReviewerName: M. Smith "Lilimint"
Date: January 23, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 3.0
Title: It works, for now
Content:
There are many good things about this vacuum: the price is right, it IS very light and it picks up well. I have hardwood floors and 2 cats and it works very well getting rid of all their hair. The noise is pretty horrendous, but I can live with that (even if they can't!) but there are a few areas where Dirt Devil have skimped on design where they, in my opinion, shouldn't have. 
Firstly it just feels cheap: the way all the sections of the handle & head fit together is not tight enough so you lose suction. The sections of the handle have a button that slots into a hole on the next section so they're sturdy and tight-ish, but the actual head just fits on loosely so it does, on occasion, fall off when you're vacuuming, but mostly you lose alot of suction here. 
Secondly there's a small plastic arm that you can push out to wrap the cord around for storage. It's such a bad design. I've not had the vacuum for very long, but I would put money on this arm not lasting more than 6 months. I'd rather they add a little weight to the machine and had cord storage inside. This also means that when in use you have to unleash all the cord and carry it around so it doesn't get in the way. It's just annoying.
Lastly, I have to take the head off the hoover several times during each use to remove the hair from the brushes and get it into the hoover. My apartment isn't that big but with the cats there's more hair than your average household, however I can't help thinking that if they solved some of the issues with loss of suction I wouldn't have to do this so often.
All in all, it's a decent hoover for hardwood floors, but it feels like a temporary investment that will last a year, maybe slightly longer and then I'll get a different one.