ID: B00094CBWC-R1U64U6RTUB2R6-AP2EOSOVC5M51
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Holmes-HFH2986-U-Whisper-Quiet-Heater
ReviewerID: AP2EOSOVC5M51
ReviewerName: R. Romaine "RobtRoma"
Date: February 11, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 3.0
Title: My 3 yr old one works great.  The new one I got... not so great.
Content:
I purchased one of these heaters from a local drug store about 3 years ago at a closeout price of $20.  That heater is used for heating under a cubical desk in my office and is still working great.  It's extremely quiet and a fantastic little heater.  The worst part about it is the control.  You have cycle through all the settings to get to the temperature you want and then turn it off.  You have to push the button 10x each time you use the thing.
My boss wanted one for her desk because this unit is so quiet. (We had already tried several other types of heaters that were too hot, too loud, too big, too small, etc.)  After searching high and low, I finally found one on Amazon.  It worked great for the first 2 weeks and then we started having issues with the thermostat.  It would constantly turn off no matter what temperature it was set at.  We would set the thing for 80 degrees and it would shut off after 10 minutes and stay off of at least as long.  There is no way it got to 80 degrees in the location we use this heater.  For this reason we ended up sending the unit back to Amazon. I've got to say, the process was painless.  Two thumbs up for Amazon's return policies.
We ended up getting a Vornado Vortex Heater.  It's very similar to this unit and we had a 20% off coupon at a local retailer. (Sorry Amazon, we needed it quickly.) Even with that, it was $25 more than the Holmes.  The Vornado is slightly louder but it has better controls.  Best part.. my boss is finally happy and her legs and feet are warm.
Bottom line for the Holmes unit... If you get a good one, it really is a fantastic heater.  Unfortunately, it seems many of them are having thermostat issues.  I don't know if Holmes had a bad batch or what.  I took a chance based on my previous experience despite the negative reviews I was reading.  It didn't pay off this time...