ID: B000HE8T9I-R2IAUVZQAUTN06-A2A07NG9WJNPGP
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Infinity-Upright-Vac-2d-NV30
ReviewerID: A2A07NG9WJNPGP
ReviewerName: Christopher Meeks
Date: May 25, 2007
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Design in a Complicated Marketplace
Content:
Vacuums are a difficult item to shop for because all appear great at the store (if you actually go to a store).  You're at the mercy and passion of your salesperson.  I happened to go to Best Buy, where I spoke to three salespeople, and none of them had statistics on any of their models.  I wanted to know what Consumer Reports said, for instance, without getting a subscription. I was shopping for a new vacuum cleaner because the Bissell we had, which was wonderful at first, lost its suction despite replacing one filter and cleaning the spongy other.  Also, a piece broke, the thing that locks the Bissell into an upright position for storage.  Hence, I was looking for a vacuum cleaner that had three things: 1) Bagless; there's nothing worse than vacuuming and finding your bag full and no more bags in the house; 2) A machine that did not use expensive or hard-to-find Hepa filters 3) One that picked up dog hair.  
I researched Consumer Reports finally, and while I found machines that satisfied the dog hair issue and were bagless, only the Dyson at over $500 satisfied the Hepa filter issue.  Then I came across the Shark Infinity.  First, it satisfies all three criteria well; in fact, the dog hair comes up easily from the carpeting, unlike the Bissell.  Second, at $199, it's much less expensive than Dyson.  Third, it has some marvelous design features I've only come to know by using it: it's quieter than other vacuums I tried; its egonomic handle makes it easy to push around; the canister, when full, dumps from a bottom hatch, so less dust flies up; there are no filters to buy ever, and it's designed to be washed out; it has big buttons and looks less gizmo-like than most other vacuums out there.  
It also feels more substantial than the Bissell I had.  I noticed one review here saying how the canister needed frequent dumping.  I found the same, but that's because it finds so much dirt and doghair so easily.  I vacuumed a room that had just been vacuumed by a neighbor's Eureka, and the canister on the Shark Infinity filled up quickly--lots of dirt and hair that the Eureka had missed.  My only hope is that this machine lasts; in that regard, I bought it at Best Buy with a four-year extended warranty for $30.