ID: B000VR3P9K-R1LJNOWY0JWOL6-A2DEIHM4R5W8QR
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB604LL-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: A2DEIHM4R5W8QR
ReviewerName: The  Musician Physician
Date: January 21, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 4.0
Title: MacBook Pro is a wonderful machine
Content:
I am a physician specializing in Radiology and an experienced computer user.  I spend most of my day working with images, voice recognition, and picture archiving and communication systems (PACS).  I was the physician on the committee that selected the enterprise wise PACS system we use at three hospitals in North Carolina. At work I use several work stations and at home with wife and children we actively use five windows computers.
Recently, I was looking for a laptop so as not to have to share our Dell 600m with the family.  I was considering a loaded windows laptop from Dell or HP but I was attracted to the Mac family because of all I had heard about Mac and the included software.  I polled a dozen friends and acquaintances  and all but one suggested I try the Mac.  Boy were they right.  In one evening I created a website for my band Ad Nauseam [...] using the included iWeb software.  I have also used garage band to take my live recordings and split them into separate songs then dropping them into itunes and burning CDs for my friends.  Yes, I could do all this on my windows machines, but it is so easy on the MacBook Pro.  You pay a premium for the tight integration.  I am less frustrated and more productive with my  MacBook Pro.  I have not yet installed software that will allow me to run windows programs in parallel with my Mac programs.  This will be important if I want to have one machine for work and play.  I understand that others have been successful doing this.
Adding the MacBook Pro to my home network and wireless N+ (Belkin) router was a snap.  I can watch streaming video and download videos via Miro with ease.  Safari and Firefox are fine internet browsers.  Last weekend the children and I had an "iChat" with my sister and her family in CT for almost an hour.  The kids love seeing each other on the web cam and once again it was so easy to perform with the included, integrated software.
I chose the 15" version because I thought the 17" might be to large on my lap.  With young kids around, I felt I might be more apt to have an accident with the larger one.  I did opt for the faster CPU though not sure how significant the difference between the two processors is in practice.
Apple Care has been very helpful in answering my questions in a friendly and understandable way.  I bought the 3year apple care protection plan elsewhere for about [...].
In short, I highly recommend the MacBook Pro for anyone interested in using a laptop for anything more than email and internet browsing.  I will  give the machine 5 stars when I get around to putting my work software on it.  My wife and I were surfing on our laptops together last night. I'm just waiting for her to ask for her own.