ID: B000BXKIE4-RGT9JEFPQJL7N-A2A5MV10TS2WVX
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL-7020B-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A2A5MV10TS2WVX
ReviewerName: M. Bear
Date: September 3, 2007
Helpful: 17 of 17
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great for allergen sufferers!
Content:
I've owned this vacuum for about 2 months and I love it! I have 5 cats so you can imagine the amount of pet hair that accumulates around the house, I wanted a vacuum that could handle this without breaking my bank account. I also suffer from mild allergies and needed a HEPA filter, but the main feature that drew me to the Electrolux was the Micro-Seal technology, which prevents dirt and debris from being blown back out from the exhaust fan. It sucks dirt up from the floor and keeps it in the bag, where it should be! My old Dirt Devil upright had a horrible problem with this and I was constantly sneezing and coughing while I was vacumming. With the Electrolux I NEVER sneeze while vacuuming, all the pet hair goes in the bag and stays there! 
Good points:
1. The vacuum automatically changes suction strength when moving from carpets to tile/wood floor (you can also manually override the settings). 
2. On/off button is located on the handle; much better than bending over to turn the unit on/off from the canister.
3. Accessory tools are stored in the handle, so no more hunting for the dusting brush... it's right there ready to snap on and use!
4. Motor is very quiet when turned on. 
5. When vacuuming is done, the self-winding power cord is great!
6. Two carrying handles make for better mobility. 
7. Ability to vacuum underneath furniture and beds. 
8. Micro-seal technology keeps everything in the bag. 
The only bad point I would say is the motor strength does not clean carpet very well. I had to vacuum over the same spot several times in places of heavy traffic or a lot of cat hair build up. I would not recommend this product if you have medium or high-pile carpet. It works okay for low-pile carpet though, and great for hard floor surfaces. If you have high-pile carpet, I would recommend the model above this one, I believe it had a bigger motor and more power. 
Overall, I am very pleased with this product. It's great if you have allergies!! I love the HEPA filter and the Micro-Seal technology. I would definitely recommend it if you have any kind of allergies, especially pet hair.