ID: B00006IV12-R21DNZFEADO0Z3-AJX30GGT76NPT
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Holmes-HFH416-1-Touch-Swirl-Heater
ReviewerID: AJX30GGT76NPT
ReviewerName: dontbossme
Date: March 6, 2008
Helpful: 6 of 9
Rating: 1.0
Title: really disappointed
Content:
With a big house and lots of little kids, I depend on some trusty and reliable space heaters in a few rooms to get us through a few months we experience winter in Austin. I own a few heaters from DeLonghi, which we've owned forever and love. These Holmes heaters were cheap and small and well rated, so I bought two of them (in addition to some others) this year. First I'll say that 1 of the 2 doesn't work at all. The red power light is on, but when you push any buttons, you can hear the fan/motor start up for about 1-2 seconds and it shuts itself off. There is simply something wrong, mechanically with the product, and I will have to return it. We have a chaotic household and i'm a little peeved I've got to go out of my way to box this, ship it and pay to return it to warranty - only to receive a refurbished one to replace it. It doesn't seem worth it for $20. That one, i'm hoping was a fluke and not a common problem (?) We haven't had that issue with the other one and it works *okay* but it isn't something I'd recommend and if I had it to do over, I definately wouldn't purchase it. All of our heaters are small in size, but this doesn't have much get-up-and-go to it. I think it puts out very little air and it doesn't get terribly warm. I guess its just really wimpy. I wasn't expecting something supurb for $20, but we find we don't even bother to pull it out.
Additionally, the design is such, that it is much easier for things (fingers and other foreign objects 2-6 year olds dream up to stick places) to stick right through and into the fan blades. Again, my expectations are not extraordinary. Small children shouldn't really be near *anything* with a fan/motor/heating element (not to mention foreign objects ;)) but our other heaters are designed much better, such that JUST in CASE a pencil or cat tail were to be inserted between the plastic shield over the fan makes it VERY challenging to hurt anything. In fact they've either long-since given up or just never bothered. (i don't think i'm allowed to mention the one we LOOVVE)This would certainly work for someone that had small, simple needs for a very small space and noone in the household that would be inclined to put things places they don't belong.
Again, the other one never working, i'm sure is a manuf/warranty issue. Just another problem I didn't need ;(