ID: B0009GZAWS-R3LMTPCDTBCH6V-A1F7SX3GNVBNE3
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-Camera-18-55mm-55-200mm
ReviewerID: A1F7SX3GNVBNE3
ReviewerName: Joshua G. Feldman "Technophile"
Date: April 6, 2006
Helpful: 37 of 37
Rating: 5.0
Title: Now I can sell my film SLR!
Content:
Growing up in the 70s and 80s as a photo enthusiast I had a succession of Nikon SLRs and lenses and was deeply devoted to them.  In the late 90s and early 2000s I was seduced by the ability to manipulate and quickly print digital pictures and had a succession of digital cameras including an Olympus D490z and a Canon G3.  These cameras had their charms, but they were slow to shoot - often missing the action.  Their dynamic range (ability to capture detail in both shadow and highlight areas) paled beside good film.  Also, their lightweight manual override modes and lenses made them poor competition to the Nikons for nighttime, macro, and special lighting photography.  I purchased a Nikon D50 almost as an impulse when I saw the price - and was prepared to be disappointed.  For the most part I was thrilled.
What's hot:
1) This camera is FAST.  Just like my film SLR, the camera is instantly on when I turn it on and shoots as fast as my finger drops (except when the flash is involved - just like my SLR).  I finally get action shots of the kids!  Yipeee!  This feature alone totally sold my wife on this camera.
2) Autofocus is awesome - seems to have ESP when picking subjects.  Has quick and easy target selection override.
3) Great dynamic range and resolution.  Shooting in fine jpeg mode allows me to print in whatever size I like - up to 8x10 without obvious artifacts.  Tones are smooth without visible plateaus most of the time and have good detail in both shadow and bright areas.
4) Great flexibility.  A wealth of modes gives me shortcuts to operational modes that handle a wealth of special sitation photography.  Manual overrides give me amazing control.
5) Good (but not perfect) meter.
6) Small and extremely light weight for an SLR.
7) 18-55mm lens has good wide angle range, somewhat limited telephoto - but covers all the basics with aplomb.  I seldom want for more.
8) Great macro mode in the built-in camera.  Nikon has purpose-built macro lenses, but the macro in the standard 18-55 is way better than the G3's $85 macro add-on solution.  Images of coins fill the frame and you can see tiny detail.  Way more than adequate for selling coins or stamps on Ebay.
9) I find this camera very attractive
10) Integrated help screens in many of the menus.  This camera is deep.  You will not get the most out of it unless you take the time to learn about it.  Once you have the gist - the help screens help you remember what's up when you're out in the field.
NOTs
1) I can't use my old Nikon AI lenses.  They fit - but don't communicate with the meter.
2) Superlightweight for the size - will it be durable?
3) It may be lightweight for the size - but this is still an SLR and can't compete with smaller cameras for portability.  This doesn't fit in any pockets - it hangs around your neck or lives in a kit bag.
4) Doesn't have a "B" mode on shutter release - limiting its use for astrophotography.  This is too bad because it's so light.
5) 18-55mm lens isn't as cool as the 18-70mm lens the D70S ships with.  Oh well - the 18-55 is still mighty fine for the price.  If you have more scratch buy the D50 body and get the 18-70 ala cart.
6) This a serious camera for photo enthusiasts.  While the awesome speed and image quality in full auto mode makes it easy for beginners to get started, a point and shoot user is going to to frustrated by this camera because the magic requires a half hour with the manual and some basic photo knowledge.
7) 2" screen on the back is fixed - it's more for settings and looking at pictures after you shoot than for shooting.  You shoot while looking through the viewfinder on this camera.  This fits the whole SLR ethos.  I sometimes miss the cool articulated screen with the G3 that let me hold the camera at arm's length - like low to the ground or high in the air to get cool "point of view" shots.  That's right out with the D50.
8) Secure Digital Media - a strength or weakness depending on your perspective.  Most other DSLRs use compact flash and I'm selling my nice collection of compact flash cards on Ebay right now.
Bottom line?  After 25 years I'm finally selling my Nikon FA (and all my darkroom equipment).  The D50 is so good that I'm putting film to bed at last.  The shooting experience with the D50 is as good as film in most areas and better in some others.  The fact that you can bring this home for under eight bills is gravy.  This price, by the way is pretty much exactly what the film SLRs ended up costing in adjusted dollars.  Kudos to Nikon for leapfrogging Canon with the killer entry level DSLR.  Last point - this might BE the entry level DSLR - but nothing FEELs entry level about it.  This is a real serious - GOOD - tool for photography.  It's a revolutionary product from my perspective.