ID: B0009GZANC-R2LP1J6WVAECHJ-A1SZNQV0CO2NW0
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-Camera-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G
ReviewerID: A1SZNQV0CO2NW0
ReviewerName: Alfred T. Miles
Date: April 17, 2006
Helpful: 26 of 27
Rating: 5.0
Title: A fantastic camera!
Content:
I purchased this package about a month ago, just in time to take it on a 7-day cruise.  I had read some of the reviews that talked about the focus time being too slow, particularly on the 55-200MM lense, so I was just a bit worried about its performance.  Maybe it's because I am not experienced enough with SLR cameras, but those must have been very demanding users of the D50.  I found it to be just short of instantaneous with the 18-55MM lense, and about a hundreth of a second slower with the 55-200 lense.  I thought it peformed just great!  And it takes great pictures.  I admit - I have a long way to go to learn to use all the features of this camera.  I probably never will master it completely, but I already know I am going to have a great time learning.  This is my first SLR other than my Pentax 35MM film camera, and only my second experience with a digital camera.  My first camera was (still is) an Olympus C-2040, another great camera.  I can't recommend that highly enough, either.  No one, unless you are a skilled professional, should worry about whether the D50 can serve your needs.  And most professionals I know would not turn down the D50.  As a matter of fact, on the cruise, I was approached by two of the shipboard photographers who noticed I was carrying the D50.  Each said it was a quality camera that they could and would use in their work.  I thought that was a pretty good endorsement.  Regarding the speed of the camera overall:  I was watching the glass enclosed external elevators used in the atrium.  There were four of them.  We were watching to see when all four of them stopped at the same floor at the same time.  Kind of like a slot machine - waiting for the 7's to roll up.  One of my party yelled "There they are!"  I grabbed my camera, which was in the OFF position.  As I raised the camera, I clicked the on switch and started rotating the barrel of the lense as the camera was coming up.  As it came up to my eye, I got it at the right focal length, pressed the shutter release button halfway for it to focus, and snapped the picture just as one of the elevators started up.  All this happened in what you might call a split second.  The camera caught the scene with no blurr.  It was like a quick draw.  How much faster does anyone need for a camera to be?  Buy it!  You'll love it!  Oh, yeah, it is instant on, too.  No waiting.