ID: B000G1CY02-R2HFNTD6X6UZZR-A3QIRDI3KK1XAB
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-HHP1500-Safeheat-Mica-Panel-Heater
ReviewerID: A3QIRDI3KK1XAB
ReviewerName: Heather D
Date: February 13, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: So far it's been great!
Content:
We purchased this heater approximately 3-4 months ago after reading a number of mixed reviews...we selected it because we liked the size, the idea that it was portable, and that it could be wall mounted. We've found the back gets quite warm, and have opted to keep it in the floor stand. Seems safer, and we think it may actually help heat the room better.
The room we are heating is a converted porch between out house and garage (a breezeway) which is 10x16, with 10 ft Pella sliding french doors on either side. We do not have any other heat in this room -- and while the windows have good insulation, the room would typically be 35-55 degrees in the deep of winter (depending how cold it gets outside). This is because the floor leaks cold, and the garage is not insulated. We wanted to use the room as an office & secondary play area for our 3 year old, and to be at 65-70 degrees for comfort.
When we first set the heater up, it did emit a chemically odor for the first day. It also didn't "feel" as though it was doing much when we first began using it -- it doesn't blow hot air, etc. It gets very warm, but not so hot to the touch that you'd get burned with brief contact. Initially I was actually concerned that it wasn't working too well. But after about 60 minutes, the room had warmed from about 50 degrees to maybe 62-65 degrees. 
What we found is that when we shut it down at night, the room gets very cold again by morning. Instead we've been using it 24/7 on a lower setting. With nearly 3 ft of snow outside and frigid temps, it's still keeping the room close 68-70 degrees during the day. Our electric bill has gone up, and my husband estimates it's running as much as $75/month in power during the coldest months -- similar to an air conditioner in the hottest months.
Given the fact that we needed the extra space and can use this heather instead of spending thousands to get something permanent installed, it seems to be a fair value. We spend a LOT of time in our sunroom now -- which was impossible before this heater.