ID: B000I3ZCWU-R335F6I72UA4AE-A3FU2O40CJOBZF
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-10-1MP-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A3FU2O40CJOBZF
ReviewerName: Michael Mclaughlin
Date: February 16, 2007
Helpful: 32 of 33
Rating: 4.0
Title: Professional User;  good value for money
Content:
My parents wanted to give me a camera for a gift. I'm a professional who mostly shoots Fashion, Events, and Portrait throughout Chicago; my camera is my livelehoodand only source of income! Here are some of my thoughts:
FASHION: It works great. I can drop the ISO to 100 and fire off at a decent speed. I've used the XT to get work printed in a handfull of magazines and it looks like the XTi will continue this trend! It's  easy to use and I LOVE the larger LCD screen! I need to show the models how they look so they can make adjustments to their poses and they find  it easy to hold and  use. It is also great to show the Makeup Artist and hairstylist the image through the large LCD screen.  I do suggest a battery grip since most portraits tend to be horizontal and it will help eliminate aching in your hand  fromreaching over. The resolution is great and I can blow images to 20x30 with ease!
EVENT: It's a bit sketchy at some events. I paired it with the Sigma 17-70mm f/2.8 and my 580ex at a CEO breakfast. The glass was not fast enough  so I had to bump the ISO to 1600. NOISE! NOISE! NOISE! I was shocked to see so much noise. It was even high at 400 & 800. WOW! I was bothered by this, but then again: I pushed the camera to its limit AND it cost less then $1,000. I cannot complain! One other note: I had someone ask ifI could "turn down the sound of the shutter." HA! Obviously I cannot change the sound of a mirror slapping against metal and plastic, but the camera DOES soundmuch louder then the 30d and 5d I have shot with in the past! 
PORTRAIT
Most of the portraits I do are for CEO's, Musicians, and random people who contact me for my services. Most have no idea that the XT and XTi are the cheapest of the Canon line and they do not care: they just want excellent photographs!
TURN ONS:
Large LCD
Compact design
Easy to hold (for people with smaller hands)
High resolution
TURN OFFS:
Noisey at high ISO
Louder then the 30d and others
No clickwheel
Small size (hard to hold when you have larger hands)