ID: B0007X7W6K-RMPOJ2JF1FDNX-A2HB9XQYXY0VVX
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: NIKON-D2X-Megapixel-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A2HB9XQYXY0VVX
ReviewerName: William Raby
Date: February 17, 2006
Helpful: 22 of 36
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great camera, but I will stick with film
Content:
I have been using manual film cameras for years. I wanted to get something a bit smaller, faster, more convenient. For someone used to the electronic 35mm cameras this would be the way to go. Photo quality and convenience is excellent. 
   The problem I found with it is that in the controlled environment of the studio I would always have it on full manual controls. I was using it the same way that I would use the old fashoined film camera with no batteries. While the Nikon takes excellent quality photos, my banged up old RB67 with a set of KL lenses just blows it away. It cannot even come close to the photo quality of the 4x5 camera. Add in the amazing capabilites of the 4x5 view camera and that is still the studio workhorse. 
   Of course when it comes to working with models, a view camera is not the ideal choice. I was hoping for a replacement for the 6x7 for working with models. The sets almost always tricked the exposure meter and I was back to using the light meter with the camera on manual settings. No advantage to using a computer camera there. You are still working at manual speed. While the photo quality of the Nikon is excellent, it still does not compare to 6x7 with good lenses for enlargements. 
   For location shoots with models the computerized automatic everything Nikon comes into its own. It is definitely an improvement over the RB67 in speed and ease of use. But the photo quality cannot match the RB67. The auto exposure and focus is definitely much easier on the models. Is it worth the sacrifice on photo quality? I am still undecided about that. 
   When it comes to landscape photography the Nikon stayed at home. The 4x5 view camera is the only choice for that. 
   The Nikon D2X is an excelent camera. But I think that it is not for me. I primarily use medium and large format equipment. Medium format is slow. Large format is very, very slow! And expensive. $2 to $3 per exposure for large format film plus processing. Digital is fast and cheap. For landscape and studio work I will stay with film. Medium and large format film is the way to go there. That is most of my work. For on location work with models, the Nikon gives medium format some competition. 
   The Nikon D2X is an excellent camera. My problem is mostly with the format and no tthe quality of the camera. If you are doing product photography for a big catalog, the Nikon is the way to go. If you are photographing wedding the Nikon is the camera for you. If you are doing portraits for clients the instant gratification for the client is quite useful. I think that the Nikon D2X would be the ideal choice for sports and wildlife photography where long fast lenses come into play. For the artsy stuff, big formats and film are still the way to go. 
   I have sold the camera and replaced it with one of those tiny $500 point and shoot cameras. The cheap camera fits in my pocket and does a suitable job for the family photos and such. The cheap camera works great for vacations. I will stay with the film for the professional work. 
   The Nikon D2X cannot beat a larger format film camera when it comes to studio or landscape work. It may be the choice for working with models on location. Economics makes it the choice for product, wedding photography. Coupled with the big fast lenses it is definity the camera of choice for sports and wildlife photography. The Nikon D2X is an excellent camera. But it is not the camera of choice for the work that I do.