ID: B00005IBX9-R3RTE6AUCOM41J-A2486CWA06DUCZ
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1200-Central-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A2486CWA06DUCZ
ReviewerName: IBoogey "IBoogey"
Date: March 12, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 2.0
Title: Good looks - Poor design
Content:
I replaced a previously purchased Cuisinart Grind and Brew which lasted about 2 months before the grinder over heated and died (you would think that they would put a circuit breaker with a reset button on all of these grinders since over heating is such a common issue with all of the manufacturers!)  I chose the DCC-1200 as it seemed to me to be the same coffee maker as the Grind and Brew without the burned out grinder sitting on top.
The DCC-1200 worked great for the first couple of months but then it began to act up.  When new it would take about 10 to 14 minutes to brew 12 cups of coffee.  However in the 3rd month it began to intermittently take from 10 to 35 minutes to complete a single pot. I noticed that the longer it took to finish the less coffee actually reached the pot.  When I put 12 cups of water in I came up with only 9 to 10 cups of coffee in the caraf with the rest of the water going out the back of the unit as steam.
Over time I realized that when I set up the coffee maker to brew the next morning that often the lid would not close properly.  At first I thought it was that the filter paper was holding up the lid but I soon came to realize that there is a part inside the lid that slides back and forth as the lid opens and closes and from time to time it seems that something is obstructing this movement.  Now when I close the top I simply push the lid forward until it drops by its own weight.  Sometimes the lid falls into a snug fit with the base of the coffee maker. When this happens the 12 cups of water I put in yields 12 cups of coffee. However most times the lid stops as much as a half an inch above the base.  When I then force the lid down to where is is fully closed, the 12 cups becomes 9 - 10 cups at the end of the cycle.  There seems to be no way to take the lid off to see what the obstruction is or to remove it.
I further note that if the filter basket over flows there is a return near the back that redirects the overflow back into the fill spout.  I am guessing that it is possible that at one time or another the filter basket overflowed and that water and coffee grounds were channeled back into the fill spout and that it is these grounds that have worked their way back up into the lid and are now blocking the proper opperation within the lid. That being said I have never run the pot without the charcoal filter in place and I have never seen grounds on the outside of this filter when I have changed it each month. So I have no idea if it is coffee grounds in the lid that is causing this problem.
I also can attest to most of the other problems users have had, most notably the amount of condensate water that comes off the lid and onto the counter behind the unit when the lid is opened.  We also noted that there is no way to turn off the audible tone that sounds when the cycle is complete.  However in our case this is not a problem because the tone if barely audible when it is at its loudest.
The thing makes great coffee when it works, but I will not be buying another one when this one finally dies.  The unit I have also serves as a great humidifier for our kitchen!