ID: B000GG8DTS-R20LUMV363VSGN-A3EJ1GW8KXUZHD
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Optimus-H-4110-9-Inch-Dish-Heater
ReviewerID: A3EJ1GW8KXUZHD
ReviewerName: Mysterious Microburst "Apocryphal Raven"
Date: November 3, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Perfect for my small office ~ kudos for energy efficiency!
Content:
I've a small home office which gets quite cold during the Fall and Winter months in the high desert. And I'm a person who gets cold easily, dislikes feeling cold and often gets comments from other people about wearing long-sleeved shirts, jeans and socks with sandals during warmer months while others are sweating it out in T-shirts and shorts. Fortunately, I have this little office space all to myself so I don't have to listen to repetitive questions like: "How can you *stand* sitting in this hot room?" 
October was unusually cold. Huddling with blankets didn't cut it, so my S.O. offers me a small ceramic heater. The size was fine, but using this sort of fan-centric, forced air heater in a tiny room was both noisy and amounted to serious energy overkill. I had visions of a triple-digit electric bill. Even on a low setting, the little ceramic bugger would consistently kick in and gradually turn this space into what even I considered a sauna. Thus irritated and lacking gobs of money to hurl at the problem, I spent many hours online researching inexpensive, energy-efficient heaters and comparing the best places where such a unit could be purchased without paying exorbitant shipping rates or driving fifty miles round trip to roam the closest brick & mortar. This little Optimus heater is the one I kept returning to again and again. I read review after review on site after site. Despite some complaints (many being difficult to fathom if a potential buyers reads and genuinely understands the product specifications) and one very negative review here on Amazon which told me nothing about the quality of the heater, I'm here to announce that I really love this little jewel. 
FYI, I found that Amazon not only offered it at the most competitive price, but I could receive it via Free Super Saver shipping if I spent another $5.01. Turns out this really great James McMurtry CD was on sale for $6.99. An awesome deal I simply would not pass up! My heater arrived in record time, was extremely well packed and in perfect working order. No assembly was required. The instructions were simple, as is the operation. One switch. On or Off. And no, I do not work for Amazon, nor am I a professional product reviewer (although I'd jump at the chance to do either/or). Case in point: I will warn anyone looking to heat a small bathroom where showers or baths are frequently taken to avoid this heater, as it is not intended for use in watery environments.
Yes, it is small. That's part of what makes it so charming and useful to me. Nine inches is the size clearly stated in the specifications. So (and this is an exercise which may prove difficult for men), it is important to get a ruler and attempt to visualize a nine-inch heater.
Yes, it does indeed have heating coils rather than higher-end lighting scheme, but I was seeking warmth without the inconvenience of periodically staring at peripheral reflections of my own retina. 
And what prevents those of you who complain about the heating coils from zooming in on the picture? It isn't as though the coils are hidden or disguised in the photograph. These heating coils function splendidly! The unit begins instantly producing heat the moment I switch it on. No, it does not come on like a blast furnace, but if I'd wanted something that rapid and extreme, I'd set fire to my wastebasket. Simply and honestly stated: there is NO delay in heat output and the space around me warms up quickly. I've left this little heater on for an hour and the very chilly room was wonderfully warm...and not just for a few feet surrounding the heater. The entire room was well-heated.
300 watts is wonderfully economical and I understand why the "professional reviewer" would have bought five of these. If you have a number of small spaces which do not require 500, 750, 1500 watts of energy investment, why would you spend a hundred bucks on one heater with excessive output that will end up costing you in the neighborhood of an additional hundred bucks during the colder months? 
I might also add, that unlike the oil-filled radiant heaters (which are the ones I've chosen for heating large rooms, as the good ones are also energy-efficient...*these* can take some time to start producing even a hint of warmth), this little Optimus does not asphyxiate the purchaser who fires it up for the first time. No dangerous fumes. No funky "musty blanket" smell. No need for a burn-in period in a well-ventilated area. Quite simply, it works. It does not require a degree in Rocket Science to operate. And as it has a cuteness factor, those of you who cannot abide "cute" will probably be better off buying something with a bit more machismo. 
To summarize: this is a terrific little heater for small, enclosed rooms that do not contain showers, baths or large water features. I doubt you could find a better deal (hey...one place was selling the same unit for ten bucks more PLUS shipping cost) or a more energy-efficient electrical heater. In fact, I might  save up to buy an extra to kill the chill in the living room until the radiant heater begins putting out enough warmth to allow me to take off my coat, hat and boots.