ID: B000JO1IPI-R2QKIJN1Z6CNJI-AS7WKA02PIEX1
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-classic-Black-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: AS7WKA02PIEX1
ReviewerName: Lynne Morgan "gadget girl"
Date: June 6, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: WOW!
Content:
I've had this product for seven months and every day I'm still blown away by it.  I switched from a first generation iPod nano and there is no comparson between the two.  Here are the highlights:
The Screen
With a scratch-resistant screen, there are no distractions in the classic's bright, colorful display.  The glowing screen (with adjustable brightness) allows you to clearly view videos in dark rooms or where reflections would normally ruin the viewing experience.
The Games
Okay, so games aren't really the highlight of having an iPod.  Still, they can be great for those like me that have insomnia and can never get to sleep.  The new solitaire has changeable backgrounds, numerous card designs, and saveable, re-doable games.  They added a new game, Vortex, and music quiz is completely redone to include dates, genres, and even trivial-pursuit type of popular movies, tv, and music.
The New Features
Cover flow is currently the most popular new iPod feature, but that's not all the new iPod has to offer.  The new iPod screen is so much prettier with a montage of your album artwork on the right-hand side of the screen.  When you scroll through your songs you can see not only the title, but the artist as well.  The sound quality is far superior than previous generations, with a clearer, crisper sound and louder volume.
Overall, if you are thinking about buying an iPod and want it to satisfy all of your media needs, go for the classic.  For just 50$ more than an 8GB nano, you can get 10x the storage and all of the benefits.  Th touch is nice, but most first generation products are faulty, which is why I went with the 6th gen classic.  My only complaints are that its the biggest iPod, but its still smaller than the 30GB previous generation.