ID: B000JO7RVC-R221OFX66P764W-A3GB9SRD4B9VRP
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-classic-Silver-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A3GB9SRD4B9VRP
ReviewerName: Alex Starr
Date: January 5, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very good...IF you know how to get the most out of it.
Content:
Let me start by saying that I have never been a fan of Apple.  Their products always seemed over-rated.  I had a Creative Zen Micro and I got the iPod Classic for Christmas.  I have to say that I'm really enjoying it.  However, since I haven't been an Apple fan, I've gotten savvy to several things that help you get the most out of the iPod.
1.  Do not waste ANY money on iTunes.  This will lock you into Apple's little system and you will wind up buying iPods in the future no matter how good the competition is.  So save yourself the trouble, support the artist, and buy the CD.  Also, be careful not to rip to AAC.  There is hardly any difference in quality between AAC and MP3, but MP3 will work for ANY device (AAC only works for iPods and several others).
2.  Learn how to use other sources of content other than the iTunes Store.  You do not have to spend tons of money re-buying movies you already own on DVD so you can play them on your iPod.  There are ways to get those DVDs onto your iPod for free, you just have to do some research.  Also, you can get YouTube videos, TV shows on DVD, and tons of other stuff if you just do some digging for the right programs.
3.  Get a BSE.  BSE stands for Best Skin Ever.  They are incredibly tough, nearly invisible skins.  They cost about $6-7 and make the iPod almost completely scratch resistant.  This will protect your screen and the chrome backing from scratches.
Those three tips address my three main problems with the iPod.  Though I cannot attest to the scratchability of the iPod (I applied the BSE as soon as I took it out of the box), I am sure it is much better with the aluminum cover.  However, the chrome backing and screen are still prone to scratches I believe.
Despite my hatred for the iTunes Music Store, I love the iTunes software.  It creates a great integration with the iPod so that my collection on my iPod and my computer are one and the same, with nothing being "watered down" on the iPod.
I also love the new look to the iPod.  The aluminum is classy and the device is amazingly thin.  With the BSE, it has stayed in flawless condition.
Sound quality is good but I'm not an audiophile by any means.
Watching movies and tv shows on the iPod is a great way to kill time.  Also the included games (particularly "Vortex") are a lot better than I would've thought.
Overall, if you watch out for several pitfalls, and learn to get the most out of your iPod, it is definitely one of the best players out there.