ID: B00004R936-RM9RQKWOY7RAR-A2HP4F7A2FKL6G
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Melitta-MEMB1B-10-Cup-Coffeemaker-Black
ReviewerID: A2HP4F7A2FKL6G
ReviewerName: Bett "Blondie137"
Date: August 23, 2003
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great coffee!!!  Bad lid design
Content:
I bought this coffee maker after having a Sanyo for many years. I loved that coffee maker and I still used it for YEARS after the plastic pieces that turned the grinder broke off. I really wanted a coffee maker with the grinder built in as well as a timer that I could program the night before. And I really wanted a re-usable basket. I hate adding more trash to the landfills. I read many, many reviews and decided to try the Melitta. This coffee maker does make a great cup of coffee and I love the convenience of the programmable timer and grinder. I love waking to smell of fresh coffee. The grinder is no louder than my last coffee maker and actually quieter than my small ginder...The grinder basket comes off easily and is easy to wash. It is a little taller than my Sanyo but it still fits under my cabinets although I do have to move it out to open the lid to remove the grinder/basket. But, it's lightweight and easy to move out a few inches. One drawback is that the warmer plate only stays warm for 1 hour. It takes me longer than that to get ready in the mornings and by the time I'm ready to leave (and want to take the rest of my coffee on the road), the coffee left in the pot is generally cold. Also, one thing I am worried about, and the only reason I gave it 4 Stars instead of 5, is that the grinder blades are built into the mesh, re-usable basket. When the mesh basket needs to be replaced, which they eventually do, I will have to replace the whole thing...
Addition to above review:
I've had this coffee maker over 4 years now and it has been working pretty well. It still grinds the coffee evenly and well. I like my coffee pretty strong and it delivers. (I know other reviewers have complained of weak coffee, but mine always comes out strong). I have not had to replace the grinder basket but it is getting pretty stained. I could use a replacement but have no idea where to buy them.
As complained of by others, for last couple of months I've been having problems with the lid not snapping down securely. Since the grinder will not work if it is not snapped down securely, this is a problem.  A few weeks ago the little tab which connects the lid to the mill broke off. I was able to glue it back on and use the coffee maker very "carefully".  However, this morning it did not want to snap into place. I was going to use my separate grinder and just pour the coffee into the basket to make my coffee without the Melitta grinder, but I discovered that the entire coffee maker will not work if the lid is not snapped into place. So, I guess I'll be buying a new coffee maker now. Melitta needs to come up with a better option to that TINY tab that breaks so easily.