ID: B000BYCGU2-R1443HEQ5Q9BA2-A2S7FP44608MJM
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Capresso-441-05-Coffeemaker-Metallic-Stainless
ReviewerID: A2S7FP44608MJM
ReviewerName: Borisgoodenough
Date: September 18, 2006
Helpful: 89 of 90
Rating: 5.0
Title: A worthwhile self-indulgence
Content:
Let's get the price issue out of the way: in no way is this "worth" its price premium over other brands by virtue of its construction / materials. You are considering buying this for one reason only: coffee geek self-indulgence in search of the best possible home-brewed.
With that acknowledged, how does it do? Answer: pretty damn well, with a couple of asterisks.
(Note: our standard of comparison is a late, lamented Braun Flavor Select, which made excellent coffee for close to a decade. But the current Braun models lack a couple of features we liked on the previous one, which threw the choice of a replacement open to all comers. We eventually settled on the Capresso.)
First off, this is FAST. It seems like there's barely enough time to put away the coffee bean jar and pull out a couple of mugs before it's ready to drink, at a perfect temperature: just slightly too hot to take more than a sip for the first couple of minutes. You do have to guess when the dripping has finished, since the brewing light doesn't go out for several minutes after.
The timed-brew feature, which is indispensible to us, sets up easily and works like a champ. We have well water but still use the water filter -- buy an extra pack at the same time you buy the coffeemaker. And we prefer using the included gold filter to avoid possible contaminants that could leech from a paper filter.
With those perameters, the flavor is incredibly good, smoother and less acidic than the Braun it replaced, using the same beans in the same quantity, while maintaining a similar richness and depth. Warning: just as high-quality stereo speakers can reveal shortcomings in source material and associated electronics, so this coffeemaker immediately lets you know if your coffee isn't up to the job. My wife's comment after her first cup: we need to use better beans.
If your brewed coffee sits around for more than a few minutes, Capresso's thermal carafe is a great improvement over Braun's warming plate. I often wait an hour for a second mug, and by then "burnt" aromas and flavors invariably creep into coffee that's been kept warm on a plate. Over that same time, the thermal carafe maintains a just-brewed flavor and seems to suffer only a minor temperature drop -- perhaps a couple of degrees.
Cleanup is definitely a bit fussy -- you remove the filter and filter holder for rinsing, and mop up the wet grounds that are invariably clinging to the bottom of the flip-up lid.
Now for those asterisks -- all minor annoyances, to be sure:
*The carafe is shiny stainless, while the coffeemaker itself has a brushed finish.  That doesn't work well together -- especially in a kitchen where other appliances are brushed stainless. And I expect the carafe to start to show scratches after it's been around a bit longer.
*The carafe pours slowly with the "black dot" in position, and you need to almost completely invert it to get to the last couple of ounces.
*The water gauge has tiny, difficult-to-see numbers for my middle-aged eyes.
I haven't tried to replicate the "counter flood" problem occasionally reported on this and the identical non-metallic model, but I can see several ways it could happen: a stuck valve in the thermal cafafe lid, using more coffee than recommended in the instructions, or an ultra-fine grind. In other words, this coffeemaker is not engineered to be idiot-proof. I'm learning to check the valve every time we rinse the pot.
That said, this is the best home coffemaker we've ever used, which is why it gets five stars. Whether the quality justifies the cost is a matter for individual decision.