ID: B000NVXF30-R236YAXXX731KD-A1BEZ0MY8ZRWMS
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Digital-Stabilization-14-42mm-40-150mm
ReviewerID: A1BEZ0MY8ZRWMS
ReviewerName: M. Menzel
Date: January 22, 2008
Helpful: 11 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best Bang For The Buck!!!
Content:
I wanted to wait a few weeks before giving what I feel is a very unbiased review of this camera. I have followed in the footsteps of many of the reviewers on here in my search for THE dslr. I've scoured review sites and viewed hundreds of pictures comparing the various companies. It came down to a few cameras (Olympus E510, Canon xti and 30d , Nikon d80 and d200 ) 
My final decision:
Olympus e510... Why?? Why when all of these other cameras have reputation upon reputation. 
Canon: No IS without the purchase of $500+ lenses, The good ol error 99 message that a lot of users seem to get(sometimes requiring a major repair), Dust removal system has been proven very inadequate. Picture results can have various issues with banding etc. NO Pixel mapping without sending it in.
The positive is obviously the amount of glass and accessories available. It has been argued but the "competitive" priced glass that Canon produces while functional is not of very good quality (the ol get what you pay for issue) .
Nikon : NO AF without the newer lenses, An inferior dust system, No IS, Banding issue that they can't seem to fix, No pixel mapping without sending it in and poor ISO at higher speeds (except the pricier models)
Again there is plenty of glass and accessories but you must use the newer pricier stuff to get any AF whatsoever.
So now the Olympus.
The picture quality is nothing short of amazing. Yes the consensus is that it does require tweaking out of the box to get excellent results. This can be said for any manufacturer across the board. 
-The included lenses in this kit far exceed those of any other included kit. Have in mind this isn't the fastest glass on the market. Please don't expect studio type results at 4.0 in lowlight. (I've learned this myself) They also include the lens hoods ($30 or more saved)
- The amount of pictures on a fully charged battery 650. Most competitors are in the 350-400 range. The drawback is a whopping 5 hr wait for it to recharge (a spare may be necessary)
-Settings upon settings upon setting. While this camera has a slew (28) of auto program style modes for those making the switch from point and shoot it also has a ton of tweakable manual settings for those looking for a little more. You can even program your own WB for specific shots.
-A proven superior dust removal system
-A proven superior IS system (providing 4 stops)
-A function that I have really enjoyed is being able to take a shot and then view the same shot with a little overexposure and one with a little underexposure to pick the best one.
-The body is very stout and slightly bulky by my standards. It def. feels like a real camera. I will say the turn knobs are a bit plastic and cheesy.
-Manual focus is a little slow as it is motorized. This has taken some time to get used to.
-There is some noise in the higher ISO range.This is common and on par or superior to most unit in the price range. While it doesn't affect anything on a smaller 5x7 or less I could see it being an issue on larger prints. I feel this could be fixed getting faster lenses.
-I have experienced the AF lowlight complaint that others have mentioned. Sometimes the flash will strobe constantly and never take a shot, sometimes it will focus in and out and never take a shot. I have found  this is primarily in full auto mode. This may be very frustrating for those switching from a point and shoot expecting the camera to take pictures with the same results. I have found switching to a different option provides desired results (tweaking is necessary) The AF has also had issues with my black dog in moderate to low light. Again this was in AUTO mode. Once I made the switch to another option all was fine.
I really feel that this is a superior camera, far superior than those in its class . The complaints I read and can forsee would def. be of those inexperienced looking for immediate results. Take the time to really learn about light and exposure and really unleash the potential of this unit. Again for those looking for a quick turn on and shoot camera this probably isn't for you.
I also agree that the current line of lenses is very expensive. I also realize that this same quality of glass in any line is expensive. Olympus clearly doesn't want to put a budget line out there of inferior quality.
There are available adapters which allow you to use lenses from other manufactures(not canon) on this body (only in manual mode) .
One final thing that I found very important. After about 60 or so shots I started to notice a nice red pixel on a few of my pictures. Fearing the worst I started to do a little research and found this to be described as a hot pixel. ALL manufactures have this issue and while there are some claims of specific times is occurs there isn't a  clear answer. Again this happens to ALL digital cameras .I soon found out that Olympus has really stepped up to combat this and has installed pixel mapping in this camera. Check with canon ..nope you have to send it off at your expense. Nikon ..same and sometimes it doesn't get fixed..This alone is worth $100+ in a shipping and repair bill.
Hope this helps ...