ID: B000CD34US-R6ENRORUKV9UN-A4DYK1715XZAK
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: American-Harvest-Pellet-Stove-Exhaust
ReviewerID: A4DYK1715XZAK
ReviewerName: GustavusAdolphus
Date: December 23, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 1.0
Title: Buy some heavy sweaters!
Content:
"3 years, and the value of the parts alone under warranty would exceed the cost of the stove. Engineering is 3rd rate on it's best days, bad enough in it's own right, but what passes for support is total garbage. 
4-7 days to ship anything (one would think they would expedite parts in cold seasons, ya,sure... guess again) Have to argue with them over what is warranty, and what is not. They call it "multifuel" but that is a risky bet. (google hopper fire 6039) use corn only. 
Cleaning makes you hate it, poorly designed clean-outs require access through limited areas. "clean out" ports for heat exchanger are held in place with poor-grade sheetmetal screws, have to work in tight-dark-sooty hole to remove them. Shows up in need of modifications before use (there are a few forums that tell you how, great, isn't it?) Pot jumping destroys fiber backplate (a nice non-warranty 80$ part). Makes more noise than you would ever believe, clunking... popping... banging, and a bit of wheezing. Out of warranty parts are SIGNIFICANTLY higher priced than they should be. Agitator motor from US stove 140$, same motor from granger is $70. Agitator motor is poorly thermally isolated, and lacks airflow, heat destroys it in short order (OEM mfgr rates it at 104 deg ambient, normal operating conditions are 180+ they fail fast). US stove gets $75 for the agitator shaft, it's $3.80 worth of 1/2" steel rod! (talk about getting the "shaft")
 Company is rude, rude, and, oh, yes... rude to deal with. 
Other failures I have endured over nearly 3 years, all seem to be a common complaint from other owners: 
1)Vacuum sensor nipple melted, causes shutdown. (result of factory forgetting heat insulator, they apologized,how nice of them) 
2)Firepot cracks between vent holes. (x2) 
3)Control module function erratic, took 3 to get good one. 
4)Auger motor failed after 1.5 years 
5) 4th!!!!!! agitator motor!!!!!!!!!!!!! AAAAARRRGGGHHH  the bane of my winter life.
6)Glass stress cracked along bottom corners. 
Save yourself some grief, buy ANYTHING but this chunk of junk... or get good at stove repair :( It reminds me of a Fiat 2000 I owned... everyday a new "surprise", some easy to fix, some not."