ID: B000VDQ38E-R39FBTRSU0H07O-A33UP6QL9VWLVY
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A33UP6QL9VWLVY
ReviewerName: G. Aldrete "sleeksavvyandsly"
Date: September 18, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: GREAT PRODUCT. WORTH IT
Content:
Please. all of you who are complaining about this product need to take a chill pill or comment with honesty. This was my first time buying a vaccumm from the internet. i will tell you i did not know how to choose the right one since there are tons of vaccumms. SO WHAT DID I DO? i chose according to the "star" ratings. if i saw that the product had more than 25% 1-3 star ratings i did not consider buying it. i chose this one because it was my sisters choice. me and my sister didn't agree. i had another choice but we flipped a coin and guess what?... yeah she won.
after considering the "star" ratings i went ahead and read the cons and pros. i was very skeptical about it then because the cons made it seem that it is really a bad product. this one review had said that it was EXTREMELY LOUD.... NOOOO IT WASN'T, YOU CRY BABY. If you have sensitive ears you should let people know that fact. it was either that personal problem or that person was one of them miserable individuals. i live in apartments and my mom vacuums the living room. i'm in my room which is less than 20 feet away and of course i can hear it but it is not even that loud. it is quieter than that dirt devil i had. I LOVED this product. and about the weight. I'm a HEALTHY, AVERAGE DUDE so it feels like it weights 10 pounds. IT IS NOT HEAVY. everyone who complained about the weight or noise has a problem. it is a great product.
when it arrived i was surprised. it came in it's original box BUT looked like if it was used. it had staples holdig the box together and that was a shock but when i opened the box it was completely new, just as described. when i first turned it on i really laughed at those comments that comlained about the noise. 
so please try it if it's your first one. it really works. i have 3 cat's. 9 rabbits. 6 birds.1 turtle. and 2 snakes. all in a 2 bedroom apartment. there was hair all over he carpet and this vaccuum cleaned it up very nicely. i should have taken a picture or video to make my comment more believable but hey. you try it and show us the vid. 
HAPPY CUSTOMER HERE... MY FIRST REVIEW TOO. HAD TO DO IT> ALL YOU MISERABLE WHINERS> TAKE A CHILL PILL