ID: B000HDG4UA-R2OE6VV1MVLZG8-A2NV87XHI67PMK
Category: MP3Players
Product: HDD082-Philips-2GB-Player-Tuner
ReviewerID: A2NV87XHI67PMK
ReviewerName: 67Rally
Date: April 17, 2007
Helpful: 10 of 11
Rating: 1.0
Title: Garbage in a sleek case
Content:
Oh boy...where to start.  I received this little 2GB wonder and was immediately impressed with the look and feel of this little gadget. Already owning a Creative Zen M, 30GB, I thought this would be a nice player for my son. After reading the directions, I fully charged the battery and prepared to download songs for my son. 
The connection to the computer was easy and the GoGear player was found immediately. I proceeded to download songs. After about a gigabyte worth of songs made their way down to the device, my son eagerly stated that was enough (okay, he's 8 years old). I disconnected the player and it seemed to go through an initialization.
I showed him how to use the player, which buttons do what. I played the first song and...it locked up. I looked at the troubleshooting guide and followed the reset procedure. I turned the GoGear back on and it played my first selection. I navigated around the song list, demonstrating to my son how to find the song, band, or genre (yes, he understand genre) of his choice. He went on his way and enjoyed the GoGear for the first hour or so.  
After an hour of playing songs, the GoGear locked up again. My son remembered the reset feature and continued on. After a while, sometimes a song would play for 20-30 seconds and then skip. They'd do this a few times, we'd reset the player...and it would be fine again. This happened until later in the evening when the battery (understandably) died.
I placed the device on the charger again for a full charge.  The 5 hours later, I took it off the charger and it no longer would function. It would power up and then shut down. I tried resetting. I tried hooking it up to my computer.  Nothing worked. It was dead.  I worked with Philips for about a week to get an RMA to send it back.
I received the return authorization and shipped the devices (at my expense) back to Philips for an exchange. After two weeks, I received the new device. The face was all scratched up and clearly used...and abused. I charged the device up and hooked it up to the computer. I downloaded the songs and everything seemed fine.
I turned the "new" player on and tried to play a song...it played for 10 seconds and started to fast-play; fast forwarding through the song while playing it. The volume was extremely loud. When I attempted to turn it down, I found the volume button was jammed. It was obviously stuck.
I was done with the Go Gear players and done with Philips/Magnavox (I was burned on a VCR/DVDR last year). I have been twice burned by them with no possibility of winning me back. 
Philips/Magnavox's quality is clearly absent and their customer service is less than sub par.