ID: B0009N7OK2-R2ABW6XUOSX3MD-AJFYJPVIJEPA7
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-Mobile-Digital-Video-Recorder
ReviewerID: AJFYJPVIJEPA7
ReviewerName: Donny A. Cruce "Big Don"
Date: July 3, 2006
Helpful: 13 of 13
Rating: 4.0
Title: Archos AV700 -  Great all in one enterntainment center HDD
Content:
Right out of the box it looks like something from the set of the movie 2001.  Pick it up - it feels solid and unbreakable ... though I wouldn't try to drop it on purpose - the 7" screen is not recessed into the case - and covers almost the entire face of the player.  Both are features I happen to love about it!
The MP3 player allows you the normal set of music management functions - including sorting and playing by genre, artist, album, year, title ... etc.  However, rather than make you click a button to see the album art - If the image is embedded in the id3 tag, the Archos displays it as the song is played. -kewl-
Video works well - with almost any codec thrown at it.  Pull some free stuff down from the internet - and jump on a plane.  You'll be entertained for hours with the bright clear screen.  
Screen resolution is just ok to me, though my co-workers really thought the color reproduction was rich and bright.  It could stand for an upgrade in pixels though in the next gen of this device.
In addition, the Archos can display photo's one at a time, or you can set it to do a slideshow - and just prop the device back on your desk using the built-in stand - and using it as a photo frame at work :)
I bought the 100 gig version.  There is also an available 40 gig version to be had.  As a technician, this comes in handy.  The device is recognized by any XP computer as an external usb mass storage device - and can be used to carry any type of file - even those it does not natively support for display. - so if you have a need to move a large amount of data from one pc to another - you couldn't ask for a more efficient means ... all with battery power, so no need to plug-in the juice( at least for a few hours before needed to be charged up again )  This Archos model also has a usb host port - which allows you to connect other slave usb devices up to it - and copy data to/from them.  Such as an external USB disk - or other mp3 player.  Just connect it using the included cable - and the Archos immediately recognizes it as an external disk ready to manage.
There's more ( scheduler, audio recorder ... ) but I'm running late.  If I can edit this review when I get back, I will - but this covers most of what I've been feeling since I bought the device.
PS - if you're wondering just how big this thing is ... I think it's the perfect size for use as a belt buckle on one of Elvis Pressley's concert Jumpsuits.  ; )