ID: B000AQSMPO-R20VCYTF1JEEP3-A31PIWZOW8UNEP
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-B60-Special-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing
ReviewerID: A31PIWZOW8UNEP
ReviewerName: M. Gass "caffeine addict"
Date: April 19, 2007
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: Still figuring this thing out...
Content:
I picked this machine up two weeks ago at a Linens-N-Things for $145, after using a commercial Keurig at the office and falling in love. I enjoy using the B60, and it's an attractive addition to my kitchen, but like other reviewers find that at the 7.25 oz. setting the brew sometimes seems weak. I haven't bothered to try the travel mug setting. The first time we started up the machine we were very surprised at the sound of the pump, but now we're used to it. I think the temperature of the coffee is perfect at the 192 degree setting, though the husband complains its too hot for him. I think this is a case of Your Mileage May Vary. I bought the adapter to brew your own grinds, and I'm still experimenting with different grind settings and measurements, and have yet to find a happy medium. I DO enjoy the ease of use and the variety of k-cups available. Van Houtte and Green Mountain are two of our favorite brands, but I'm also very pleased with Gloria Jean's Hazelnut. Green Mountain's Nantucket Blend is probably my very favorite of all the k-cups, and since it seems to be Out Of Stock, other people seem to agree. I've also experimented with making lattes and espressos at home with excellent results. I think I've gotten the recipe down pretty well. I brew Van Houtte's Eclipse on the 4 oz. setting, directly into a mug of hot warm whole milk (around 2 or 3 ounces), and topped off with two tablespoons of vanilla syrup, whipped cream and a dash of cinnamon. The hubby claims he can't tell the difference between that and a Vanilla Latte from Starbucks. So much cheaper, too! I would give this machine 5 stars, but I've only really had it two weeks. I'm merely waiting for the suckage and disappointment to start. ;)