ID: B000EPHR0C-R1VC0ILN0FN5OQ-A2IPV24R9A48NN
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Video-Player-Black-Generation
ReviewerID: A2IPV24R9A48NN
ReviewerName: TXMahaRaj
Date: April 22, 2007
Helpful: 7 of 9
Rating: 4.0
Title: a solid player (by no means perfect)
Content:
I did a lot of research before buying a new MP3 player;before the iPod, I only had an iRiver IFP-390T with 256 MB of RAM.  I like using that to work out with, but I needed something to hold more songs, and I wanted to be able to dock/play it on decent speakers in my apartment.  So it was down to the Creative Zen 60GB player and the 80GB iPod.  I basically chose the iPod because of the extra 20 GB of storage...I didn't want to have to buy a new player for a while.  Here's what I like and don't like so far:
PROS
1.  Videos - I've downloaded the trial version of some software that lets you rip DVDs to watch them on your iPod, and the video quality is really good.
2.  Navigation - I like that I can listen to my music by artist, album, or song...and that I can shuffle them all.
CONS
1.  No stock radio feature - I'm surprised no one else seems to care about this that much, but I think it's a little odd that Apple makes you pay $50 for the radio add on...after all, didn't the portable music player revolution start with the Walkman?!  I'm suprised this hasn't been mentioned as much since I consider it a basic feature.  It wasn't a huge deal for me since my iRiver has a radio feature (in fact, I can record the radio feed on my iRiver!).
2.  Playback logic - Suppose I wanted to listen to all my Dave Matthews songs.  When I've finished listening to all of them, the iPod just stops playing music.  To me, the logical next step would be to move on to the next artist and play all of those songs.  This is especially annoying when I'm listening to the iPod on my iSymphony M1 (sorry - not sold at Amazon, otherwise I'd write a review) because I have to walk back to the iPod and pick the next artist/album/song I want to hear.  Also, 
3.  Playlist creation - If you have 80 GB of songs, the chances are you are going to hear a song for the first time on your iPod (not your computer).  Yet the iPod only lets you add songs to an "on-the-go" playlist, so if you're not near your computer and hear two songs that you think should go on different playlists, you're SOL.
Overall, it's a decent player, and iTunes were easier to use to synch it up than I thought it was going to be...