ID: B0007QKN22-R1T2G0VT60DDMS-A1YUB4V9OHM4YI
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-f3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A1YUB4V9OHM4YI
ReviewerName: Larry L. Hoffman
Date: March 15, 2005
Helpful: 25 of 41
Rating: 5.0
Title: Don't trust the guys with cheaper prices nor Amazon!!!
Content:
In response to the post about buying from those 'new & used' sites, BEWARE!  Make sure you do your homework and don't be drawn into something you can't easily undo (even if you're close to NY city they won't provide a real address).  Likewise if you used, as I did, a search to find vendors outside Amazon.
My suggestion is to get into Google and look up as much info as you can on a potential storefront or even a user.  Last night I was considering buying from the one offering a Canon 20D for about $750!  After checking them out, I discovered multiple complaints and nothing that indicated they were a legitimiate enterprise.
Although I was torn between the XT and the 20D, I decided to place an order with Amazon for the XT.  Now, I notice a post that says his delivery date for this item from Amazon is 2 months out!  My order was immediately 'processed' so I can't change it, but you can bet I will do whatever it takes if I have to wait that long.  The 20D was available for immediate shipment, so I may regret not ordering it.
I'll update this post to share how this works out...
Since my original post, I have sent Amazon 2 messages to try to cancel my Rebel XT order (and then order the 20D).  I have heard nothing back in 2 days.  Note that the Amazon order page for this item says 'you can cancel your order at any time'.  Not true, as mine says it's being processed and no changes can be made.  Yet, it has not actually shipped nor do I expect it to anytime soon.  Ad also says 'first come, first served' 'as soon as it's available'.  So why not let me change my order rather than place it in limbo where I now am stuck with whatever date they decide to ship it?  Not good customer relations!
Although I'm a big advocate of Amazon, I feel I'm getting screwed on this transaction.  Hope someone is reading this as well as the 2 inquiries I have made...
It's now Friday - 3 days since my order was locked in - and to my surprise the camera has just been shipped!!!  I never received a reply to my customer service inquiries, so I'll now have to be content with this purchase.  I'm sure this will be a great product but I'm still a bit miffed about the lack of flexibility in changing the order.  The morale is to be sure you're absolutely sure about what you want before hitting the 'place order' button.