ID: B0007Y79B2-RDXY5Q0TDSMO-A2B7BUH8834Y6M
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Black-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A2B7BUH8834Y6M
ReviewerName: Shelley Gammon "Geek"
Date: September 20, 2005
Helpful: 21 of 22
Rating: 4.0
Title: Amazing technological leap doesn't even look real!
Content:
You have to physically handle and hold the new iPod Nano to believe it is real. It is approximately 1 ounce in weight, so almost unnoticable on your person - whether it's in a pocket or an armband. The small color screen is stunningly brilliant in brightness and color definition.
The black iPod shows fingerprints more prominently than the white version - but ooh la la, it is most sexilicious to look at! I'd personally love to see one of these in red as well.
Because they are so new, third party vendors haven't had much of a chance to make cases and other products for the Nano. 
There are only a handful of already existing products out there that are already compatible with the Nano...
Available FM Transmitters:
Forget the iTrip and those of that ilk - current versions won't work with the Nano. Your choices for now are the Belkin (which is buggy) and the Monster iCar Play Plus. The Monster version isn't cheap, but it's an integrated charger and FM transmitter and is one of the best out there. 
Available Cases:
The Apple branded armband - looks like a glorified bandaid in the case, but looks decent when you wear it
Apple branded Tubes - good luck finding one, most Apple Stores still haven't gotten any in stock
Apple branded iPod Socks - designed for the older iPods, they work fine with the Nano - but can cause minor scratches
Available Speakers that Charge:
The JBL OnStage - fits fine, sounds great
The Bose Sound Dock - is visibly off-center, but fits fine, sounds freakin' awesome
Altec Lancing's IM3 for full and mini - fits but sound is lackluster
Klipsch - sounds great... Nano is greatly dwarfed, however by such large equipment... akin to building a superdome around a book of matches.
By the time you read this review, 10 other vendors will have probably already submitted their patents and copyrights to lawyers for new gizmos.
Apple has announced that the new configuration of how the Nano connection is set up will be the NEW standard for all forthcoming iPods... this will help vendors make products more quickly and without quaking in their boots that by the time they get something to market, it will be outdated - and should encourage lots of new development like we have yet to have seen thus far in the iPod accessory industry.
The Nano adds a World Clock, a stop watch and a combination lock to the "extras" menu. The famous silver back collects scratches and fingerprints exactly like its counterparts - but this is a known - get a case to protect your investment. Contrary to what another reviewer posted, the Nano is not "fragile" - far from it. There are no moving parts - so you could probably use this as a hacky-sack for an hour without fazing it. 
At least one consumer has published their own abuse study of the Nano, running it over with a car and throwing it from a moving car at 55mph before finally rendering it useless after a 40 foot drop onto cement. The screen makes it a tad more vulnerable than the shuffle... but it's a sturdy piece of industrial art.
My less than perfect rating is for the following:
1.) No firewire support - even if you have a dock connector to firewire cable, you won't be able to use it - it is USB 2.0 only. What is Apple thinking? Hello! Remember your loyal Mac users who prefer FireWire?
2.) Sole earphone jack is too close to dock connector - using a splitter probably precludes charging it at the same time.
3.) No extra jack or connector on flipside so remote can be added while it charges... so if and when the vendors make recorders, remotes and other goodies for the Nano, you won't be able to use them in tandem with a charging solution.
4.) No bluetooth. Why is this an issue? More and more items are becoming BT enabled. One application I can think of right now is a Nano finder. The Nano is almost weightless and very thin - if you misplace it, how are you going to find it? If it had BT and you had (for example) a Nano finder on a keychain, clicking it could send a signal to your Nano to make audible clicks. Just an idea. This review loses a star for the other reasons, however, not this one... but come on, Apple!
5.)Still no way to get custom logo engraving via Apple unless you're a corporation with a large order... third party vendors are now doing laser engraving so you can put photos of pets, kids, yourself, your logo, etc. on the back of your iPod - but Apple offers no such solution. Considering that stamps.com allows you to make your own legal US postage with a photo of your pet, and they are able to prevent porn and other objectionable imagery through, there is no reason why Apple cannot make this accommodation.
6.) Limited (still!) photo capabilites. Compact Flash cards are like diamonds - the bigger they are, the more they are per carat (or rather, per MB). The iPod Photo camera connector connects a camera just fine - but not to the Nano! There is no explanation for this - it still uses a dock connector, but won't work w/ the Nano. The camera connector isn't that great to begin with, because you can ONLY use it to connect an iPod to a camera, not to a compact flash or multi reader... so if you're out in the field taking photos, you can't take them until your photos download and you waste your battery in your camera. If you could attach a card reader to the connector and download photos for storage on your iPod while simultaneously shooting more photos with your camera using a different card so you can swap without losing precious shooting time. Camera connector shortcomings notwithstanding, it doesn't work with the Nano. I know I already stated this, but I'm still frustrated.
The part of me that loves Apple's innovative technology and design wanted to give this incredible gizmo 5 stars - but there is still overt room for improvement and I know Apple can do this!