ID: B000V5QV4S-R1UXO1RO8GE98R-A1IO1WJP0ZRG4T
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-40D-Digital-28-135mm-Standard
ReviewerID: A1IO1WJP0ZRG4T
ReviewerName: Displaced Tarheel
Date: July 12, 2008
Helpful: 20 of 22
Rating: 2.0
Title: Loved until it stopped working and then it got worse!
Content:
I was excited to get my first DSLR after years of using a 35mm SLR followed by a Canon Powershot S3 IS, a good camera but limited. When I received it, I immediately started using it and was extremely happy with the ease of use,many functions, and the resolution. I even signed up for a $200 nature photography course/workshop. Forty days after getting it and 10 days before the course, I got the dreaded error 99 message and the camera completely stopped working. I can't return it since it lasted 10 days beyond Amazon's return policy and Canon tells me to send it in to be fixed and the warrany MAY cover all the cost. Even if they fix it I will then have a camera I will not completely trust and will lose the oportunity to use it in the course/workshop for which I will use S3 IS rather than completely lose the nonrefundable $200. I almost bought a Nikon, guess I should have.
UPDATED RATING  ONE STAR
I send my camera in for warranty work after my initial rating. I was told the repair would cost $747 since my warranty was voided by "moisture" damage. Since the camera had not been near water, not even rain, I asked how that was possible. They asked me about high humidity or if I had been prespiring. I live in AZ and our humidity had suddenly gone from about 10% to storms overnight, and I may have prespired. I was told digital equipment is sensitive to moisture, and that either could have caused the problem. I can not believe that either could cause problems in a properly built camera. Later after searching the internet I discovered that Canon used this story at least once before to explain moisture damage voiding the warranty on a camera not exposed to liquids. The camera is coming back unrepaired and going to an independent electronics lab where a friend works since he is interested in looking at it but warns canon's opening the camera could have made it hard to spot bad seals. After that it will go in the trash or I'll mount it as a thousand dollar bad memory. I am selling the accessories and lenses I bought for it - most unused and still in the box, and I am buying a Nikon. Lemon's will happen, bad faith dealing with customers is unexcusable.