ID: B0000YTYGM-R3EUGV9KKVF3DK-A1FSUUBTYBEKEG
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DTC-975BKN-Programmable-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1FSUUBTYBEKEG
ReviewerName: Richard P. Bergeron II
Date: November 12, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Worth Every Penny - Notes on Leaks
Content:
My needs were simple but specific when I moved to a new job.  Where is the bathroom, and where is the coffee pot?  I soon found out however that just about everyone near my office drank unleaded (decaffeinated) coffee and the nearest real stuff was all the way across the building.  I immediately thought of brining in my own pot but knew that a 12 cupper would be a waste of coffee.  I only drink 2 or 3 mugs per day usually some in the morning and some in the afternoon.  I like my coffee fresh which meant with a conventional rig I'd be brewing 2 pots a day.  I could get one of those single brew jobs but I'd be tied to those darn little packets... what a hassle.  Then I came across this gizmo.  But $100 for a coffee pot?!?  I decided to give it a shot after a couple of weeks whole-heartedly trying to get used to that stained water with no get up and go they called coffee.
I purchased the pot from Amazon, got it in, brought it to work, set it up with much fanfare and excitement, threw in a permanent filter, some grounds and some water, and let `er rip.  Great pot right off the bat!  I find the coffee is hot enough, but if you want it hotter (I saw someone complain in their review) simply pre-heat the carafe with a hot water rinse before brewing.  I am not kidding when I say that a pot brewed at 7 am is still drinkable at 3 or 4 in the afternoon (it's not piping hot, but it is no iced mocha drink either).
A WORD ABOUT LEAKS - This carafe has a special brew-through design lid so it can remain untouched through the brew phase and pouring into your cup phase.  THE LID MUST BE IN THE POUR POSITION WHEN BREWING!!  I too was a victim of coffee everywhere, but being the engineer that I am I studied the pot and identified the problem.  If the lid is not in the pour position when brewing the displaced air has nowhere to go when the coffee tries to drip through the top creating a 12-cups-of-coffee-on-the-floor episode.  
ANOTHER WORD ABOUT LEAKS - You should also make sure the grounds reservoir is fully closed and the carafe is in place all the way to the back.  Since the unit has a brew pause feature (you can pull the carafe out while the machine is brewing) the carafe and the grounds reservoir must be lined up properly for the coffee to flow into the carafe.  The brew pause thing is nothing more than a spring loaded valve on the bottom of the grounds reservoir which is pushed up and open when the carafe is positioned correctly.  When the carafe is removed or is not positioned correctly the valve is closed so that the water collects in the grounds reservoir.  Keep the carafe out too long, or improperly position it in the machine and leako.
Needless to say I've had this rig for about a year now.  It gets used every workday (5x/week) and it is still going strong.  I would not hesitate to purchase this product again and have highly recommended it to friends and family (with the stern notices above).  It's like a successful marriage... learn how to handle the little quirks and you'll have a long stimulating relationship.