ID: B00012XCZW-R3K7S9XX5BLT47-A45S6D1P309G9
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Bunn-NHB-Professional-Brewer-Black
ReviewerID: A45S6D1P309G9
ReviewerName: M. B. Walters "Big Smoky Valley"
Date: October 1, 2005
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Nothin' makes coffee like Bunn
Content:
This is the 4th coffeemaker in 3 years for my household.  My husband has a knack for breaking them.  Every time I would shop for a new type he would say wistfully, "Nothin' makes coffee like a Bunn."  Until now I thought the price was too high given his track record. This time I decided to bite the bullit and buy him the Bunn.  It was well worth it and I should have done it 3 coffeemakers back.
This machine makes coffee.  It comes out hot and fresh and just right.  There are no fancy bells and whistles and you can't remove the pot while the coffee is still dispensing.  It's very fast though and it's worth the wait.   I'm not sure why but the coffee really IS better tasting.   And, the machine is built well and has already outlasted the last two coffeemakers we had.
There are a couple of things that you must be aware of when you set this one up for the first time.  
1) You must follow the directions right out of the box for initial brewing and DO NOT assume that you can just set it up like the other machines.  You have a heated water reservoir and it has to be prepped, then you have hassle-free operation for evermore.  There is a switch on the base of the reservoir and it must be on all the time when you will be using the machine.  Only turn it off when you are going on vacation or other prolonged periods of non-use and then prep the machine again when you resume use.
2) You have to use Bunn coffee filters and they aren't as readily available as other filters so stock up ahead of time as the other won't work in a pinch as they are too short and the grounds will overflow out of the filter and into your coffee. 
We don't use the switch on the front of the machine for the warming plate under the carafe.  The coffee is plenty hot when it initially dispenses and it stays hot enough for the first couple of cups.  Since the burner doesn't switch off automatically, we prefer to avoid the risk of cooking our carafe by just not using it.  This means that if we are drinking the coffee all day, we just warm it up by the cup in the microwave.  It actually tasts fresher than if it had been simmering on a warmer for a while.   We live at a high altitude (6000 ft) and the directions say that you may need to get a different spray head for the brewer at high altitudes if your coffee tastes weak.  We haven't had this problem.  The standard fitting seems to be adequate and hubby like his coffee pretty strong.
This home model is an excellent choice for regular coffee drinkers and I expect this machine to last for several years.