ID: B000CS7UEY-ROBY559CL2OW7-A2LKKPDO1ZPL5J
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Zen-Vision-Video-Player
ReviewerID: A2LKKPDO1ZPL5J
ReviewerName: Scott Parks
Date: February 27, 2006
Helpful: 17 of 17
Rating: 5.0
Title: This thing is fantastic.  It's not hype.
Content:
Ok, so I've had this thing for a month now.  I've got the hang of it and I'm impressed.  Here's the deal...  I looked for about 2 weeks researching every possible mp3 player out there.  I looked at Ipod, I looked at Creative products, Philips, ect.  I decided on the Creative Zen: M.  I'm not sorry.  I'm in Iraq and since I'm not home I can't speak for the way Ipods act back home.  But I can say that almost EVERYONE over here has an Ipod due to having absolutely nothing to do on down time.  The sand is just eating these Ipods up.  EVERYONE's Ipod freezes up, they have to clear them out, or they just stay frozen.  I've heard (just a rumor) Ipods' customer service on the phone is 49.95.  I just didn't have the scratch to risk having them refer me to their website for almost 50 bucks.  I read all the reviews and here's what i get:
Ipod vs. Zen pros and cons
the thing is the pros of Ipods are rediculous
More stylish, more popular, the wheel thing, itunes (not a pro in my book), wow, allow me to catch my breath. Is this all?
Zen pros
14 hr battery life, 10 hrs voice recording (very nice for putting comments or stories on cd's), awesome music management software (not exclusive to one format), (if style is an issue) 5 colors to choose from, video playback is awesome (also a pantload of formats for compatibilities sake), theinvisibleshield.com offers a film that's just unreal to protect the screen (Ipod too)
I say dodge the Ipod like the plague(sp?) because people are just not happy with them.  If you think I'm biased that's ok, but Ipod owners told me not to get one.
Buy one, the product speaks for itself.  Creative's track record is pretty good too.  They've owned the CES show for a while now with Best In Show products.  Zen: M was this year's, and for good reason.
Peace.