ID: B000WFZRZG-R1J8W3TFMI5DBD-A2ZWW63BM16QXZ
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Pink
ReviewerID: A2ZWW63BM16QXZ
ReviewerName: Matthew J. Lau
Date: June 29, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: What the ipod nano should have been
Content:
I bought the Zune two weeks ago, after trying one out at the local best buy.  As an Apple fanboy, I'm leery of anything Microsoft related.  However, I'd read a lot of stuff on Headfi regarding the surprisingly good sound quality on the Zune.
Sound:
Rich, full, balanced.  It beats my Meizu M6 (which kicks the snot out of the ipod) in the subtleties of the piano.  Paired with my Audiotechnica ESW9's, the Zune absolutely floored me.
Fit and Finish:
It's like a slab of polished agate in the hand.  The glass front picks up fingerprints, but resists scratches pretty well.  The back is really hard to scratch or smudge due to the anodized, brushed metal finish.
The iPod nano...smudges and scratches really easily.
Battery Life:
Very good.  I didn't play it all night, and it has an auto-shutoff once the plug is pulled.
Interface:
Really intuitive, but also allows blind operation.  The interface is elegant, simple, and just plain works (something I can't say about my Meizu).  Compared to the 4th gen iPod nano, it's a tossup regarding which is better.  They're both in the same class, but I think the Zune is more flexible.
Compatibility:
It doesn't handle Ogg, but it handles multiple video formats with ease (something my Meizu can't, and iPod's won't).
Wifi, Radio, etc:
It has an excellent radio...which is sometimes indistinguishable from lower quality mp3's here in SF.  Wifi is pretty useless (Microsoft crippled it).  I didn't use recording.
Gripes:
The Zune is almost perfect.  Unfortunately, Microsoft gimped the Zune.  The Zune used to be able to log onto Last.fm with Zenses, but can't with the latest firmware upgrade(I think someone's working on a workaround).  Also, the Zune software is really slow and hardware intensive (just like a bloated version of iTunes, but worse).
Conclusion:
I don't like Microsoft, but I like the Zune.
I'll be selling mine though, because I'll be heading to Japan and I'd like to have the GPS capability of the iPod Touch (although SQ is only OK).