ID: B0007QKMSC-RGQRIK32Y3OFS-A21NKUK55XVMFZ
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-Camera
ReviewerID: A21NKUK55XVMFZ
ReviewerName: Dave "www.eosrebels.com"
Date: November 27, 2005
Helpful: 34 of 36
Rating: 5.0
Title: Go Canon EOS and never look back
Content:
A year ago I sold my Digital Rebel on eBay and purchased the 20D.  I have since not looked back.  This camera has brought nothing but joy to myself and others.  The sharpness and colors from the famed Canon sensor are true to their reputation.  Friends and family all love the pictures that come out of this camera.  
 
After selling my Rebel, I debated upgrading to the new Rebel XT or the 20D, which I'm sure many of you might be having right now before pulling the trigger.  I held both in my hand and played with them at the PMA tradeshow where the XT was introduced.  It was very light and felt very small in my hands.  I don't have exceptionally large hands, but the XT felt like it was designed for smaller hands.  That being said, it is a great travel partner to have being so compact and light-weight.  
 
The only other drawback, however, is that the user interface is quite different from the 20D.  Although it may seem like a trivial feature, the dial navigation on the 20D has been immensely more convenient and practical when shooting compared to pressing the buttons on the Rebel or the XT.  I didn't like having to navigate through the ISO or other changes to white balance via the LCD screen.  I definitely think there's a reason why the 20D is more expensive beyond the fact that it has the solid magnesium alloy body.  The user interface for me was worth the extra money as well.  The more you take photos, the more you will realize the freedom that comes with controlling your aperture, shutter speed, white balance and more with the 20D interface versus the XT.  That being said, it is still several hundred dollars more expensive and the sensors are practically the same (the XT has 0.2 fewer megapixels).  But the XT will give you the same stunning results because the differences are mainly external.  
The XT is not for everyone just as the 20D is not for everyone.  I suggest strongly considering and weighing the differences between the two camera bodies before purchasing and prioritizing what's most important to you between size, weight, and UI.  If you travel a lot and don't want to lug around a heavy camera...then without a doubt get the XT.  It's the same bang for less buck and for the price the XT package can't be beat.  
 
I highly recommend getting the kit lens with either camera.  For an additional 100 or so bucks it is well worth it just for the range and it has pretty decent quality results.  Bang for your buck it can't be beat.  Make sure you pick up a EF 50mm f/1.8 II USM lens for another 80 bucks.  This is a powerful little lens at a great price.  
 
I have had so many friends ask me about my camera and my pictures, that I decided to create a site called eosrebels.com that you might find helpful in making your decision and learning about the basics of digital SLR photography.  It's specifically for owners of the Canon EOS digital SLRs.  Check it out for useful tips and research that will help you get started on this rewarding journey of digital photography!  Either way you won't regret your purchase.  It would make an incredible gift, not only for Christmas or a birthday, but for life.  It sure did change mine.
 
Don't hesitate to buy this camera today!