ID: B000FTLSR0-R2G3GX6G2WH2QI-A11EZI8XJBSPJN
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-Digital-Reduction-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A11EZI8XJBSPJN
ReviewerName: Shannon
Date: September 8, 2007
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: I've had this camera for about 9 months and I am truly in love with it.
Content:
First off, it doesn't have that flimsy digitial-camera feel, like others in it's price range. It is solid and sturdy (survived a bit of a drop!) and it feels amazing in your hands. The grip is really deep, the buttons are firm, and all the doors have a nice spring shut. It's very satisfying to handle (making it hard to stop taking pictures)
It's a great travel camera.
I've brought this camera to England and Japan and I was impressed with the results. The auto modes are quick and easy with a great outcome, when time is of the essence. But I was also able to get some great long-exposure pictures of city lights with my bare hands. The image stabilization really shown when I could read the time on the shot of Big Ben when the cars below were a blur.
It also switches very quickly and easily between auto and manual, if you just want to adjust the focus or the exposure a bit.
I like the fact that you can switch out the old lenses, becuase my dad has a few of them, but I haven't had the need to. the 18-55 gives as much range as I need and then some.
The WB indoors is a bit of in issue, but it is easily fixed by adjusting the setting (or by using flash, which is good for what it is, but flash is gross). And the sharpness of the picture rarely decreases in low light, so sometimes I embrace the orange hues. Orange can be nice.
I also love that it runs on AA. The rechargable ones were cheap and they keep it running forever! (and, when you're desperate, there's another option)
If you're doing what I was doing and looking to upgrade from point and shoot, this camera is really worth your time and money. I have very little photography experience and I've become fairly good with this simply through trial and error. Also, the quality of SLR pictures is worth the added expense. Exact focus, vivid color, and no delay. It's a glorious thing.
And as a final word, from what I've experienced so far, I'm convinced this camera will last a good long time, still turning out top-notch pictures. It's an investment (yet still one of the cheapest out there...)