ID: B0000C8VEK-R1NQCO1IEK8R6J-
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-Camera-18-55mm
ReviewerID: 
ReviewerName: 
Date: December 4, 2003
Helpful: 36 of 36
Rating: 5.0
Title: Sweet digital camera
Content:
First of all this camera's price point marks a first in the digital SLR field.  I would recommend this camera for someone that is tired of missing shots waiting for your CCD based digital camera to recycle.  The cycle time with flash is at the most 1.8 seconds unless you have 4 or more pictures waiting to be spooled to the flash card.  This is slower than other more expensive digital SLR's, but is FASTER than every non-SLR digital camera I have seen.  The battery life is remarkable to say the least of any other digital camera I have seen.  The proprietary battery caused me a little concern, but it has such a rich history with Canon's other digital SLR's and PowerShot models, I felt comfortable.  The battery just keeps on going and going too.  I hope this battery can continue to perform like thes for several years down the road.  When the advertisement states that you can get 300-400 pictures out of one battery, BELIEVE IT..  I intentionally ran the battery down one day and I would swear that I took somewhere around 500 pictures (90% of them using the flash) before the battery finally gave up.  I have a 512mb flash card and it filled it up more than twice on the SAME battery..The fit and finish left a little to be desired at first with the plastic body.  I have come accustomed to using it and even though it's made out of plastic, I would like to see someone do a drop test to see how the case holds up against another digital SLR with a metal body.  My money's on the injection molded Digital Rebel (if there is such a thing as SOLID plastic, this is it)..If purchasing this camera, be sure to get Canon's SLR accessory pack for 69.95 and BestBuy (and others maybe).  This pack contains an extra battery and a 58mm Canon UV lens.  I use it on my lens as a permanent protector.  The battery alone costs around 60 bucks and you get a bag and a filter to boot..Some folks have complained that indoor photography sucks with this camera.  DON'T believe everything you read!!  I thought this at first, but when I set the camera in the P mode it allowed me to adjust the ISO level and indoor photography improved instantly.  I will agree that the full auto mode should be used sparingly indoors.  Now I have to worry about having pictures that are overexposed inside.  No need for a mini studio as someone mentioned..  Just play with the camera for a while and you will learn so much.  Besides this is digital..  You can see your mistakes before paying for processing..Also, plan to purchase some other lenses (that's why you purchased a digital SLR to begin with, right).  I purchased a 75-300 from BestBuy off their clearance rack (for a ridiciulous price for a Canon EF lens) and the lens works great.  If you're good with the ISO settings and the program mode, you can take indoor shots with the zoom at full tilt!  And speaking of zoom capability..  The focal point of the 75-300 lens actually has to go through the 1.6 magnification factor..  So to the camera the effective focal length of the 75-300 lens is actually 120 - 480 zoom.  Sweet..I haven't taken the camera to any sporting events and it gets dark so early now, I only have time to do daytime photography on the weekends.  The amount of correction in the automatic mode works good for daytime photography.The software on the PC for the camera was a little different at first.  My last camera just hooked up to the computer and presented a file folder of images for download/review.  The Canon software provides far more information about the camera, and all of the elements that went into making the picture.  This has been very helpful for me to determine exactly which light balances to use for the best shots.  I have also tried the direct capture to the computer and it rocks!!  It told me I had like 11,000 shots left to take using the hard drive of the computer to transfer images..  I will say the USB connection between the software and the camera is a little slow.  I wish this camera had a USB2.0 connection for faster speed, but hey no other digital-SLR offers that for ANY price (as far as I know)..  I would certainly leave some money in the budget for a CF reader that works on USB 2.0..  About $45..In closing, I find this camera to be a very good value for the money and look forward to other times I can do some creative photography.  Availability for this camera may be a little scarce, but if you have to wait, I feel it will be well worth it.  I have a friend that has a full EOS 35mm outfit complete with a few lenses, flashes, etc..  It may be time to play Lets Make A Deal since all of his components are (1) authentic Canon accessories, and (2) the Digital Rebel can use some older accessories..Happy hunting..