ID: B0001K5GOE-RZILKPWSLWDLE-A6MMNCEKEJ5WP
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dyson-DC-11-Telescope-Canister
ReviewerID: A6MMNCEKEJ5WP
ReviewerName: D. L. Miller
Date: April 8, 2005
Helpful: 17 of 17
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent vacuum - in the world of vacuums.
Content:
I have two - one in different houses.  I do not have wall-to-wall carpet (hate the stuff), so my experience is with wood floors, area rugs (thick and thin), and furniture.
First, the size and ergonomics are very good.  Easy to manuever around corners and furniture.  Though, the beater head doesn't always let you get under low pieces (but many other vacs don't either).    
Next, the DC11 keeps excellent vacuum power all the time.  I had both bag and bagless before.  They leaked where they could and clogged up sooner than later.  Huge pains in the butt.  I even had to use hose clamps to keep the 'bag' vac from losing suction - that was real pretty!  Anywho, the DC11 hose connections are tight and purposeful.  Even the accessory attachments fit tight.  
Also, there are some references to this machine making more noise than some.  To me, it was reasonably quiet for the power it generates.  My other vacs where definitely louder. 
There are two ways to empty the dirt.  The first is to press the button that unhinges the bottom and the dirt falls out.  The other is to take the entire bottom off (a different button) and dump the dirt out, turning the clear plastic cylinders upside down.  I do it the latter way because, when I unhinge the very bottom, some dirt always gets on the rubber seal and I have to wipe it off (making sure I get the most secure vacuum seal). However, either way works fine.
The beater bar does sometime bog a little in thicker carpet.  If you have alot of carpet, I'd get an upright.  For me, the DC11 is perfect.  It depends on your floors and use.  And if it does stop, just pull the little trigger a the handle and off it goes.  Also, I notice that the little round "disc" at the side of the beater that you press to turn off the beater itself, does sometimes need to have the lint cleaned off of it.  If this gets too much lint on it, it'll not engage correctly.  Not a big problem; just keep this in mine before calling the help line.
Finally, the price.  What dollar amount do you put on a clean house?  How many other vacs do you buy first?  How many bags do you buy? etc...    Some people will buy many cheaper items instead of one better and more expensive one.  Always buy the best you can afford.  It really does pay for itself in the long run.