ID: B000JO1MU4-R1SXU1TUMZAPNL-A19TSC6KMNNKWM
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Silver-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A19TSC6KMNNKWM
ReviewerName: Aaron Dahl
Date: December 31, 2007
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: A great little piece of equipment
Content:
After several MP3 players, I have finally grown frustrated with Microsoft's kinks with their Media Player software and the incessant troubleshooting of their poorly managed DRM music files.  After experimenting with the iTunes software, I headed over to my local Apple store to play with their iPods.  I considered both the Nano and the Classic.  While my entire music collection is over 8 gb (plus video content), I decided to go with the Nano simply because of it's tiny size, and the ease of slipping it in my pocket while exercising or traveling. 
Style: The Nano is really small and tops on my list in terms of looks, the slick case contains the iPod trademark stainless steel back (which is nearly impossible to keep clean), and the wheel.  The wheel is a good bit smaller than the Classic, and while it took some getting used to, I think it was quite easy to master.  The screen is small, but the new "squatty" styling of the Nano permits a larger screen than the previous generation Nano.  The screen is slightly recessed from the case, and it has begun to collect some dust around the edges.
Interface:  The distinctive wheel on the iPod makes navigating the menus quite easy.  The menus are very intuitive, and begin with music, podcasts, video, etc, then within the Music category you can play by artist, playlist, etc. I don't really find what all the fuss about this album view thing is, while it is useful on a touch screen device like the Touch or the iPhone, it is pointless on the Nano or Classic. You can only sync this device using Apple's proprietary iTunes software, there are many options which enable you to restrict what gets transferred to the iPod by rating, genre, playlists, or even only checked items - this is very useful if your collection exceeds the capacity of the iPod.
Music: I can sync it with only my favorite songs (using the rating system within iTunes), and while.  Equalizer customization is very limited, but the factory defaults are set very good, sound comes out full and rich (at least as good as a flash MP3 player can).  The Nano came with the distinctive white earbuds and they are ok, but I am using some sound isolating SONY earbuds which provide excellent sound from this Nano.
Video:  The screen resolution is incredibly crisp and bright - it's amazing really.  I initially thought the idea of watching a video on this 2" screen was ludicrous, it is not as bad as it seems assuming you are picking up a 30 minute or shorter video podcast or something - I still don't think I could subject my eyes to a 2 hour movie on this thing though.
All-in-all, this device meets or exceeds my expectations by providing a lot of features in a very small package at a reasonable cost.  8GB of storage is adequate for most folks, and the video functions that Apple includes in this are a nice addition.  There is still some room for Apple to improve the sound quality and customization options, and I wish they would include a set of earbuds that not only looked cool, but also sounded good.