ID: B00005IBX9-RPU0NGY8XWSY2-A2RO40LIBUA67E
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1200-Central-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A2RO40LIBUA67E
ReviewerName: Wayne Beckham
Date: August 25, 2006
Helpful: 38 of 39
Rating: 5.0
Title: A Coffee Maker for the Wanna-Be Connoisseur
Content:
The unit itself is a beautiful matt black that fits with any kitchen's decor.  It's a very sturdy unit and just the "heft" of it pleased me.  The unit comes with a few paper filters, a scoop, and one charcoal water filter.  Having the filter built-in to the unit is going to be a real convenience.  The manufacturer recommends replacing the filter every 60 days, so you're going to want to lay in a supply, but fortunately these are easily obtained directly from Cuisinart and they may be available from Amazon, but I haven't been able to find them.  The paper filters are actually optional, due to the included gold-tone filter, but I've found it's a lot easier to clean out the basket by just dumping out the paper filter and, as others have noted, you get a better tasting brew.
If you grind your coffee, you need to be aware that any coffee maker can overflow if you grind the beans too fine - they'll plug up the outlet, so don't get carried away.  This is coffee, not espresso.  Also, I seen where others have mentioned that it's difficult to measure how much water is in the brewer and all I can think of is that normally you have an external water level somewhere that you can see and people are used to those.  The Brew Central has a stepped-measure in the machine that I find easier to use.  It's hard to describe, so I'll post a picture of when I get a chance.  But the reason I like it is that while your pouring the water in, your looking right at the level and not testing your eye-hand coordination by pouring water while your looking someplace else.  
All-in-all, very pleased with the Brew Central.  The coffee tastes great, stays hot, and the no spill carafe is a joy.  Highly recommended.