ID: B00005MF9C-R2AHU11U1807YS-A21WPCJ3C2HC4G
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-DCM18S-Personal-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A21WPCJ3C2HC4G
ReviewerName: Peter V. Giansante
Date: March 15, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best Value In A Personal Coffeemaker
Content:
The Black & Decker DCM18S makes a great cup of coffee, fast. Here are some observations after more than a month of constant daily usage.
The permanent filter is a great idea, but I use a very fine grind on my coffee, and the filter's mesh doesn't exclude the fine particulates. I use a Melitta #1 paper filter for extra filtration, but that's just a personal preference. It's not absolutely necessary.
The water fill is on the left side of the unit; you'll be pouring with your left hand. Fortunately, the cup's rim is well designed, and it's easy to pour without spilling, even if you're not a left-hander. The plastic tab for the filter basket protrudes into the pour space. It's best to pour in the water with the basket removed.
The unit drools. Condensate from the last brewing stays in the top, and when you flip the hinged lid open for the next fill, the condensate runs down the lid, then down the back of the unit and onto the counter top, necessitating a wipe-up. The power cord is only 24" long; you might need to unplug it if you need to move the unit for cleanup.
The supplied mug is poorly insulated. It has a comfortable handle, so it's not a problem to hold it, but it doesn't keep the coffee hot. Keeping the lid on helps. The mug is narrow at the bottom, evidently so it will fit in car cupholders. But that gives it a high center of gravity. It's easy to knock the cup over--another good reason to keep the lid on.
The mug does have a non-skid rubber pad on the bottom--a nice touch. No complaints about the size of the mug. It  holds 16 ounces. Use it to fill the reservoir, and you'll get the right amount every time. 
The unit makes more noise than any other coffeemaker I've ever used. It's not particularly bothersome, though.
Seems like a lot of quibbles for a 5-star review, but none of the above gripes are enough to make me regret my purchase. It still makes a great cup of coffee, fast, and at a price that's hard to beat. I'd buy it again with no hesitation.