ID: B00008UI0R-RTCLBPNP1MURR-A3J3CQCCTD1S47
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A3J3CQCCTD1S47
ReviewerName: Kathy Sheets "an ordinary girl"
Date: March 24, 2007
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: So THIS is how a vacuum should work!
Content:
Wow!  I have spent much more on vacuums but none of them had the suction power of this little guy!  (3 different levels of suction)  I only have laminate and tile floors due to environmental allergies and I also have 4 cats.  I was previously using a swiffer and a stick vac but got sick of seeing cat-hair tumbleweeds floating by immediately after cleaning.  After some research, I decided to try this vacuum, despite seeing some reviewers' concerns with the small dust cup.  I am so glad I did!  This vacuum is easy to use, has the necessary attachments to clean upholstery and carpet plus the crevice tool.  After experimentation, I have settled on using just the wider hard floor attachment instead of the one with the beater bar that can be used for both carpet and hard surface floors.  It fits under things like dining tables and hutches more easily.  I find that I only have to empty the dust cup every second use.  The dust cup does look large but only the bottom inch or so is actually available for dust collection.  For those who balk at emptying it, it really is not that hard.  I put one of those empty plastic grocery bags I always seem to have around in the top of the waste basket, put the dust cup inside, folding the bag around it so no dust escapes into the air, then I turn the cup upside down to empty it into the bag, pull the cup out and tie the bag up.  I don't think that's rocket science but some people seem to have not figured that out.  It's loads better than those stinky vacuum bags that I've had to deal with in other vacuums.  If you get this vac, you can read the instructions about washing the cup and taking care of the filter.  It's no big deal.  Anyway, if you have hard surface floors this is the vacuum to get, (it's not as noisy as I feared it would be either) but if you have carpet, you will probably need to empty the dust cup a LOT more frequently so that might not make you happy.  If you have stairs and only one vacuum, you will like how light and small this one is.  Don't forget when first inspecting the vacuum to look under the top cover for some of the attachments and the small filter brush.  I almost don't mind having to vacuum to anymore, what more can I say?