ID: B000AQSMPO-RTMJO4ZFC5M65-A1WCZA9TMIS1WG
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-B60-Special-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing
ReviewerID: A1WCZA9TMIS1WG
ReviewerName: Renard
Date: March 20, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Serves multiple purposes
Content:
There are plenty of positive reviews on this item. I'm posting this because:
I'm a noise-sensitive person, and when I read about noise while brewing, it made me pause. But this is a non-issue. We have a small apartment. I put the brewer on a piece of shelf liner to protect our marble counter and awaited the worst. OK, it vibrates for a few seconds when brewing and after I add water to the tank. But I can't imagine being "embarrassed" or disturbed by this level of noise. Our kitchen adjoins our bedroom, yet my husband has slept peacefully through this process.
The second concern that arose from the reviews was the strength of the coffee. I'm not a coffee snob and only visit Starbucks occasionally, but it's hard to imagine that the strongest setting would be too weak for the majority of coffee drinkers. 
As to the amount you get out of a K cup, I don't spend a ton of time drinking my coffee in the morning; as long as it's enough to wash down my vitamins, I'm not concerned about the volume. I'm all about the caffeine at that point. We keep the Keurig on the lowest temp setting, which means I can actually drink it right away, which is not the case at Starbucks. 
However, in the evening, I enjoy the Green Mountain hot chocolate, which is best on the middle setting and therefore fills up most of a regular mug. My not-supposed-to-drink-caffeine husband enjoys the decaf teas, which he actually dilutes/cools by adding ice, so they must be fairly strong to begin with. I'm not a tea drinker, so this is just a supposition.
Someone also posted that the K cups were expensive and hard to find. A K cup is about 50 cents by my count. Even if you add things to it that cost, e.g. I throw in milk most of the time and some sugar-free amaretto syrup occasionally, you're going to be hard-pressed to approach the tab at Starbucks. And, of course, with the attachment that costs about $20, you can use your own ground coffee. 
Some people really enjoy the coffeemaking process. For them, it's an art form. They aren't going to like the Keurig because it's just too simple. There aren't enough variables, though you can certainly mix and match flavors within one cup.
For me, I'm more concerned with the finished product, low maintenance and not spilling coffee grounds. From an environmental standpoint, my husband mixes paints in the used K cups, so they're being reused. 
So...if you like coffee/tea/hot chocolate but aren't concerned with the process as much as the outcome, this might be for you.