ID: B0007QKMR8-R3VSU4TSWFAA3E-A32SLM7H0TJE7B
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-Camera
ReviewerID: A32SLM7H0TJE7B
ReviewerName: Imejasan_Photog "imejasan"
Date: June 29, 2007
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Another winner from Canon
Content:
The Canon EOS Digital Rebel XT is my fifth Canon SLR camera.  Other Canon cameras I own include the Canon EOS 10S, the EOS Rebel G2, the EOS Elan 7, the EOS Rebel digital (6.3 MP) and now the EOS Rebel Digital XT.
Canon products keep getting better and better and less expensive.  I used to be a big Minolta fan, but then Minolta did its swan dance and I got stuck with a couple of Minolta bodies and a bunch of Minolta lenses that were no longer supported.  That will never happen with a Canon camera.
But back to the Rebel XT.  This camera has all the wonderful features that made the first EOS Rebel digital such a big hit and then improves upon them.  The obvious improvements are a smaller and lighter body as well as a bigger sensor (6.3 vs. 8.0 mp).  The other not so obvious improvements include much faster response time (I can't tell you how many shots I previously lost due to lag time) and a new accessory battery grip that takes rechargeable batteries as well as AA batteries.  While traveling is not always feasible to bring a charger along, so the ability to use standard and readily available AA bettereis is a major plus.  
This camera is a true joy to use.  I passed up on the XTi (like I passed up on the Elan 7E) because I do not need or want some of the extra complexities of the XTi model.  I don't need eye focusing (Elan 7E) and I don't need a CMOS self-cleaner (Rebel XTi).  It is not all that hard to occassionaly clean out the old CMOS.
If this is your first digital SLR camera you will like the point-and-shoot auto modes found in the camera.  If you are a more advanced user you will benefit from all the shooting choices available with the camera.  In other words, this is a camera that you can grow with and will not soon outgrow.
If you already own Canon, or Canon-mount lenses, then buy the body only and skip the kit.  If this is your first SLR, get the kit and learn your way around the camera using the lens included with the kit.  Is not as bad as some people would like to make it out to seem.
Get this camera and you will never look back!