ID: B0000X7CMQ-R1A58PYJ2AZK00-A1N6OUHL1R2KEE
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Zojirushi-EC-BD15-Thermal-Carafe-Coffee
ReviewerID: A1N6OUHL1R2KEE
ReviewerName: L. Snow "Reasonable Person"
Date: June 17, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Love this Coffee Maker!
Content:
Zojirushi EC-BD15 Fresh Brew Thermal Carafe Coffee Maker
First of all I was convinced by my mother that a thermal carafe is the only drip type coffee maker that makes any sense to own.  The burner style takes the coffee from good to burnt inside of an hour on most machines while the carafe will keep the coffee good and hot for hours.  Seemed like a "no brainer" to me and after a month with the Zojirushi I am an official convert to the carafe style. Way to go mom!
One review gave this product a single star and complained that it took multiple minutes to pour the coffee from the carafe.  I think he needs to read the instructions more carefully and actually open the carafe so the coffee pours freely.  I was concerned that this might be a problem since I am replacing a one year old Mr. Coffee that looked great on my counter but gave me nothing but drips, spills, leaks and mediocre or burnt coffee.
Another reviewer gave it a low star rating and said the actual product looked and felt like cheap plastic.  I don't agree.  The basket and carafe are stainless steel and yes, the rest is plastic as are many other small kitchen appliances but I found the plastic components to be more than adequate for the job and not flimsy at all.
What I like about the coffee maker:  Easy to pour water into the top using the carafe without the top on.  Easy to read how much water has been added without having to turn the machine and go through the whole mercury thermometer viewfinder problem if you know what I mean. This is the neatest coffee machine I have ever had.  It never drips, leaks, spills or pours coffee on the counter ever!
Once the coffee is finished brewing it gives one long sigh and then just sits and waits till you are good and ready. 1 minute or 2 hours later I get fresh hot coffee. What a pleasure.  Once I've poured my first cup I close the lid, add the little "sealing" piece that covers the brewing hole and the coffee stays warm (OK - not hot)for at least 4 hours.  I haven't gone back any longer then that so it could be longer.
The down sides - not really any for me but it is a tall machine and the lid opens up, so if space between the counter and upper cabinets is an issue this might not be the right machine.  You do have to check that the drip arm is over the grounds.  Never been a problem for me but for those that are a bit absent minded before their coffee, it could be a problem.
Cost - I used one of those 20% off coupons from BBB that they seem to send out every other week and ended up having it shipped since it wasn't in stock.  Didn't pay any shipping costs and with tax it came to just under $80.
I can relate to the guy who wants to buy another one so he will have a replacement when it eventually gives out.
I recommend buying this machine.