ID: B0009GUE10-RP44A4KNYHDYQ-A1QKRO4AH1MK6D
Category: MP3Players
Product: Sony-NW-HD5-Network-Walkman-Digital
ReviewerID: A1QKRO4AH1MK6D
ReviewerName: R. Clercx "ronald_clercx"
Date: July 8, 2005
Helpful: 14 of 26
Rating: 2.0
Title: Flawed by cheap shortcuts and not kept promises
Content:
First of all: I'm not pro or contra I-Pod (because these days most reviews seam to be biased on this part: Is it an I-Pod, meaning 'are you hip' and most reviews seam to be concerned with the hipness factor: my only concern is the sound quality and user friendlyness vs prize, and this is what we'll look into.
I'm an audiofreak and this is my main concern: does it sound good and francly when I listened to the I-Pod with the supplied headphones I thought it was pure rape of soundquality. So when I read 'excellent soundquality' in some reviews about this MP3-player I was certainly expecting a lot of this Sony. 
Let's go thru the motions as you would when you start to unpack your new toy. 
Buildquality: this is surely a pro. It doesn't only look sturdy, it also feels like it. The size of the unit can best be compared to a pack of 25 cigarettes (NOT a creditcard as sometimes mentioned) but with only half the depth. Then, first negative surprise > you slide the cover away for the power and USB port. Flimsy to say the least and a rather cheap shortcut which is out of place in this otherwise firmly build unit. 
Installing the software: I had no problem putting the CD-Rom in my Windows XP Pro (2nd service pack installed) based pc, following the instructions, installing the native Sonic Stage v3_1 software, and from there it pretty much pointed itself out. If you don't have basic computer skills, well: don't buy an MP3 player. Anyone who can manage making a play list in Windows Media Player of Win amp will certainly find his way around. The interface isn't slick, but frankly I do not care, as long it does the job, and it does. 
Transferring songs into the player. Again no problems, if you can right click and know where to find the USB-port on your computer, it's all rather simple to pump your whole collection or parts of it in the player. 
But here comes a first con: Sony mentions that this player also supports WAV files. This is a lie: WAV files are being converted to ATRAC-format when transferred to the player, which means there is NO way to listen to music on this unit in a not compressed format (which is a shame because of the large harddrive). 
For an audio purist who wishes to use the high volume hard disk to listen to songs in uncompressed format, this is definitely a first let down: Sonic Stage simply converts the WAV-files into ATRAC so let's be clear: WAV is NOT supported for playback, only ATRAC and MP3, and even concerning the last there are some remarkable glitches. When transferring the songs, it's easy to follow the process: when songs are transferred in the original format things go relatively quick, when things are converted to ATRAC the process slows down and of the 500 songs I've pumped into it, several MP3 tracks where converted and offered me no choice but converting if I wanted to get them on the player that is (although these MP3 files never caused any problems for playback on my computer with Windows Media Player or Win amp, so there should be no reason to convert them to ATRAC). 
For any audio lover like myself, the horror of compression on compression, is like making a compromise on a compromise (two times compression is BAD for sound quality -unless you like to listen to music that has all the dynamics crunched together). 
OK, after this first disappointment it's time to find our way thru the menu's of the unit. Again anyone who is used to working with a computer should have no problems in finding his way in the menu-based options. It all pretty much points itself out, and it's only a matter of clicking the arrows to quickly access the different submenu's. If you can manage finding your way around on a modern gsm, this should pose no problems. 
Pro: it's also possible to search on first letter and of course there can be searched according to artist, album, genre, playlist, etc. 
But here it comes: the moment of truth, because no matter how pretty the design, or user-friendly the interface, it's about the sound (or isn't it anymore, I dare to ask) > we hook up the (very cheap) headphones and HORROR: the sound is cold, has almost no bass response and far too sharp treble. 
The overall feel of the sound is very thin and the bass response is as appealing as listening to a steel drum. The dynamics are crunched together in a small spectrum and any audiophile will shiver. I immediately thought of returning the unit to the shop and demand by money back for this pure rape of sound quality. I really can not relate with people who find this good or even excellent sound quality: it's obvious these people certainly never listened to music on a decent hifi set. 
OK, then I hooked up my Beyer Dynamic DT 911 headphones. A remarkable difference, but still far from close to the sound of a hifi set: if people relate to sound quality as 'excellent' then I think of hifi quality, but this certainly isn't it. 
And then there is a serious problem with the sound volume: there is a volume limiter installed (impossible to switch of in a easy way, unless you do a non authorized hack -which could ruin your unit if you do it wrong or non validate your guarantee), which makes the player unsuitable for noisy environments: don't try of thinking to seclude yourself from noisy environments with the supplied headphones or the sound volume offered. 
Well, after you forked out a decent amount of money for this player, there is no choice to cash out again for decent headphones (or probably this is planned all together). Consumers seam to find it acceptable if they pay already a decent amount of money for kit, they still have to fork out more to replace a headphone which is surely the cheapest one Sony could find to accompany the player. If this quality is considered to be good, well, then the sound of my clock radio is less cold. 
The headphones supplied belong only in one place: the garbage bin, and that's where they are right now, because they are a pure rape to sound quality. Waste of material, and adds to the garbage dump. Shame on you Sony. 
Moving around to find a song is only a matter of routine, after a couple of minutes I was already quickly finding my way around, with no problem what so ever. You can even add bookmarks within play lists, so anyone who takes his times to configure his music tags before importing music should have no problem. 
Oh yes, forget about the screen that would follow your view on the player. It simply doesn't work, and I'm not the only one to find this out: also the CNET review mentions this. Makes we wonder if the disc-protection works, because when a manufacturer offers a feature which doesn't work, it makes me wonder about other so called innovative ideas like the protection from shock. I'm reluctant to throw it to the floor to find out. However, I made some wild movements (due to my first shock when I heard the sound quality), and it didn't skip, so that's partly assuring. 
Conclusion: although the device and supplied software is user-friendly, it's obvious you should have some basic computer skills before you start complaining. If the manual states to switch off other programs BEFORE installing, well then simply follow the instructions. Build quality is very good but with a flimsy shortcut (the USB cap), and sound quality with the supplied headphones is TERRIBLE. There is not even a case supplied to roll up the cord, but this doesn't matter because they were so bad I tossed them in the bin immediately. 
I certainly hope that the Fontopia MDREX 81 LP which I had to order separately will be an improvement. (Add this to the cost). 
Oh yeah, if you want to protect the player from being scratched in a decent matter, forget about the pouch: it's as cheap as it could get. You want a decent protect case: well, time to cash out again. 
Let's be honest: yes, it's practical, yes, you could fill the player to the brim with 20.000 songs (if you didn't care a damn about sound quality what so ever), yes it's nice to look at, BUT it is simply overprized for what it is and for getting the most out of sound quality there is no option but to add headphones to the prize (certainly if you want to hear the music if you would be in the subway or a noisy airplane). 
In short: MP3-players are the hype and many reviewers will justify there expense with glorious terms so you would run to the shop as well. If you do not have a large music collection you want to carry around, buy a cd-discman instead. Oh, and forget using the high volume drive for as a way of convenient transport between you and a friend. Once the music files are on the player, they can only be transferred back to the SAME computer. (Of course your Wav files will be in Atrac format by then: once again WAV is NOT supported, if this is 'support' well then converting from any format to Atrac could be considered 'Support'. 
So forget about taking the player to work, transferring the content to your jobs harddrive for future listening. Copyright protection: what about the customer who just forked out a decent amount of money to stock his music collection and who was hoping it would also serve as a way of transport between different computers? 
I would say: the less people buy it, the more manufacturers will be forced if they put a new product on the market so supply it with decent accesoires. At this prize I expect decent headphones and carrying case to be included (there is not even a clip). (Oh, or are we supposed to buy that seperately as well?). 
Add at least 100 $ to the prize, to get decent accessories. If these were included I would gave given it four stars.