ID: B0007QKMSC-RQTAXOV8JVWF-A1X4JG0FZMU9V9
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-Camera
ReviewerID: A1X4JG0FZMU9V9
ReviewerName: David "fightdivx.com"
Date: June 14, 2006
Helpful: 24 of 31
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great Camera - Terrible Software
Content:
Ok, by now you already know you want this camera. It is a great camera and everyone loves it. It has a ton of features. I bought this camera and here are a few things that I didn't easily find out when researching it that you may find helpful.
1. You cannot see an image on the LCD before you take you picture. So you look through the eyepiece like a regular camera. At first I didn't like this since I was used to the Sony 828 model. But now I am used to it and don't mind it at all.
2. You can take pictures considerably faster than similar cameras like the Sony 828. If you have the faster memory card you can take pictures nearly as fast as a regular camera. This is one of the first things Sony owners noticed when using my camera.
3. This camera is more complicated than a Sony model. Having knowledge of photography and settings is extremely helpful.
4. The flash on this camera compared to the Sony 828 doesn't seem to be as good.
5. The software that comes with this camera is EXTREMELY bulky. Just getting the images off my camera to my computer is a major chore. Many times it starts to download them but then hangs etc. I need to have a full battery usually to get a few hundreds pictures transferred. The software is a real drag. There are some cool features of the software, but overall since it is so bulky and slow it really would make me consider a different camera in the future. I would recommend buying a memory card reader if you buy this camera.
So basically this is a great camera that takes great pictures. It is very responsive and works as it says. It is upgradeable with lenses and is probably the closest thing you can get to a real camera. But Canon really has to spend some more time making their software responsive and work better. I give a 4 star rating only because of the software given with this camera. The Sony 828 when hooked up to a computer will show up like a drive and you can easily copy the pictures to your hard drive. You can not do this with the Canon unless you install their drivers.