ID: B0002VM3IE-RIK8I86HQFEVI-A263N0IWQO6TC7
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: 1500-2dWatt-Quartz-Power-Radiant-Heater
ReviewerID: A263N0IWQO6TC7
ReviewerName: Timm Martin
Date: February 6, 2007
Helpful: 18 of 19
Rating: 5.0
Title: Powerful heater in a small package, great value
Content:
The Marvin 1500 watt quartz heater is a powerful little heater that's quite affordable.  I work at home and don't want to heat the rest of the empty house.  I needed a small heater to keep my workspace warm, and this model works great.
This unit has two settings: 750 watt (which engages one heating element) and 1500 watt (which engages both elements).  The 750 watt setting is good for most times.  The 1500 watt setting will quickly heat up the coldest room.  The unit is a radiant heater which heats skin and objects through thermal radiation.  It produces an instant warmth similar to sunlight on the skin, but does not heat the surrounding air.  To overcome this limitation, the unit also has a small fan that fills the room with warm air.  Together these heating methods combine to produce a strong, even heat bubble within about 10 feet of the heater.
Another nice feature (that I haven't had to use yet) is the heating elements are fully replaceable.  My last quartz heater lasted 25 years before the switch finally melted, so I'm not sure how useful this is, but it's nice to know if one of the elements burns out I don't have to replace the entire heater.  The heater's body remains cool and has a handle that allows you to easily move the heater even while it's on.  There is also a freeze guard that automatically turns on the heater if the temp approaches freezing.  I could see how this would be useful to keep a cabin warm when you are not there.
There is a slight rattle when the heating elements first turn on (this is common to all radiant heaters) and a slight hum as the fan operates, but otherwise the unit is fairly quiet.  So far I have not encountered any negatives to this heater.