ID: B000GG8DTS-R1PWR3I6198M9S-A2J8K8PYCEYBW4
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Optimus-H-4110-9-Inch-Dish-Heater
ReviewerID: A2J8K8PYCEYBW4
ReviewerName: ChurchOfJesusChrist.Net
Date: November 3, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 2.0
Title: May be useful for SOME purposes
Content:
Alternate review titles: "Adventures in low-power heating", or "A spot heater".
INTRO
I wanted to experiment with low-power (and silent) electric heating. Most heaters only go down to 400 watts. This one is 300 watts. I've never seen one this low, probably never will again, and now I know why. 400 watts is probably the minimum needed for a decent heater for most peoples' purposes.
THE GOOD POINTS
My unit came in perfect condition. Has the look of a personal desk fan, minus the propeller. If a hair dryer and little desk fan mated, this'd be the offspring. It's light, small, and the materials are good. Grille seems removable to clean the parabola by small screws. In short, I wanted to like it. Operationally and cosmetically, it was fine. Also, it truly is silent. No buzzing, humming, or cracking sounds except the normal hum when you first turn it on. In terms of light emission, the dish seems to glows orange like a jack o' lantern. It's not very bright, and I was able to sleep with it pointed at me with a sleeping mask on (which always falls off, and it didn't wake me up). It has a little carrying tab on the back to pick it up, or you can grab it from the neck. It doesn't get hot in back or anywhere but the front grille. 
WHAT I LEARNED
The low power and 'economy' factor lead to a smaller reflector. So the low power & small dish size combine to emit a narrow heat beam. Both those require the heater to be closer to you, to actually feel it. That means other parts of your body aren't going to get the heat. Hence, a "spot heater". 
So the fact it needs to be so close introduces several problems. The fact you need it so close to you, not only leaves some areas of you cold, it can make the closest areas too hot (after awhile). Ironically, the larger heaters heat more evenly, because you can sit them back farther. Not only do larger units heat a larger area (more power, larger reflecxtor), they heat more evenly, because the distance between your front and back is less of a ratio to the distance from the heater, than when the unit's up close. In other words, if the unit's very close to you, the percentage of difference in distance between your front and back (relative to the heater) is greater than if the heater were farther away. 
So, for example if you had the heater on your left-front, your left side might be warm enough, but your right arm or hand may very well be outside the useful range. Plus, you have to keep it close enough such that you're only heating your upper body (at a maximum)--maybe more just your upper midsection and not your head or lower section. The colder the room, the more magnified the temperature difference feels. Ironically, taking OFF clothes can help, because you feel the heat much better on your skin. But then, you only have 'spot' heating. Although heat does emit from the dish, I'd say an equal amount of heat rises off the top of the unit--there's even a vent for said purpose.
Think of trying to heat yourself with a hair dryer. It actually occurred to me while struggling to stay warm that a hair dryer would probably work better, it's just too noisy.
So to get an even distribution where you're heating a significant portion of you, placement becomes crucial. But the fact it's barely adjustable, also works against you. It looks like the thing was designed to point upwards more, but at the last moment they put a plastic tab which stops it from tilting up more than just a bit. But I found that pointing down is even more important, and it pretty much will not tilt down. You can sit it on a slightly angled surface, as long as the topple-sensor button doesn't push out enough to turn it off. 
I remember placing it carefully near my bedside, about level with the bed (on the shipping box), near my thigh, pointed at an angled direction at me (covers mostly off, so the heat could get to me). I woke up on my back with my left side comfortable, and my right arm so cold I thought it'd fallen asleep. Even sitting it on the floor almost between my feet on a game chair, aimed up at me, or whichever way I put it, I couldn't get my whole body feeling the warmth. If it's far back enough to get your whole body (even seated low), it's too far back to feel anything at all. The colder your house, or the more clothes you're wearing, it makes it even worse.
The heater is so weak that with very cold feet, holding them right up to the heater, it would take a few minutes to even feel the heat. Over time, they'd heat up to where it was too warm. But unless you're holding your hands on the metal grille, it'd be very difficult to burn yourself. I'd still say that the oil-filled radiator type heaters, and probably the noisy ceramic types, are safer. I will tell you I wasn't concerned about safety with this weak little heater though. I also didn't find the heat as 'soothing' as I thought it would feel. Not sure why on that. 
POTENTIAL USES
- For your cat/dog -- this might actually be its most useful purpose. You'll notice how many reviewers mention their pet finding it. This would be used by your pet far more than any toy.
- For a child sitting at a desk. The low wattage and small size makes it maybe more useful for a smaller child than an adult.
- As a supplement to another underpowered directional heater. *Could* be throwing good money after bad. 
VERDICT
I'd recommend getting 1 "good" dish heater over 2 or even 3 of these. I bought this as an experiment in directional heating. I learned that 360-degree heating is nicer, but directional heating can be useful. Part of my strategy was to use it in places which were pretty chilly, but that's when you really need a heater with a wider heat zone, and the guts to be able to heat from a distance wide enough to get your whole (or even half of your) body. I really do think now that 400 watts would be enough to really start to get somewhere. But 300 was just not enough for me. It made me appreciate my oil-filled heater in my bedroom (which cycles on and off at 600watts-low). My loss is your gain. Many people seem happy with theirs. 2 or more could be adequate, if you like tweaking and ability to place them exactly. 
So what did I do with mine? A friend acually liked it, so I passed it along for half of what I paid for it rather than pay any returns and restocking. It'll get use as a cat heater if it turns out to be too weak for their taste, too. I'm again in the market for a directional heater.