ID: B0000SWAC8-R2VVEFXS7KQSDW-A1P7ID3FYEEB85
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL6988D-Oxygen3-Canister-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1P7ID3FYEEB85
ReviewerName: Woody W.
Date: October 10, 2006
Helpful: 32 of 32
Rating: 2.0
Title: Problems with quality
Content:
I looked around for a decent canister vacuum, and decided to spend a little extra for the Electrolux name. I thought Hoover was too unrefined ($100-$200 range), and I didn't want to spend over $500 for a mid-range Miele, so perhaps Electrolux was a good compromise and I had one before that lasted over 7 years.
Let's start with the pros. First, the vacuum looks nice, modern, and refined. Compared to our out-going model, a $200 Sears-Kenmore brand, it is quieter and seems to have better suction. I also appreciate how the bags have a cardboard lid that closes when removing.
Now the cons. The nice looks are not backed up by quality parts - the creaky plastic wand easily bends or deforms when pushing it into the main handle, sometimes causing the metal attachments points to bend. Eventually, after a few bends, the metal attachments broke off, and a new wand was not covered under the manufacturer warranty.
The handle's plastic slider that controls suction is not air-tight, so on full suction you can still hear the air leak out. Thankfully, if I play around with the slider and place it about 1/8 inch from full suction, it seems to keep the air in. Speaking of handle, I would have tremendously appreciated a power on/off switch (for the entire vacuum) on the handle - you only get an on/off switch for the head.
The attachments that are on the canister body fall off constantly since they are curiously and inconveniently placed at the end of the body, where the exhaust is. If you ever place the canister upright, you know what I'm talking about (which is probably why the pictures don't ever show the attachments on the canister body).
The vacuum head started to split, and I'm pretty sure we did not drop it or hit it against anything. I was able to snap it back into place, but ironically, within a short time, the belt broke so I had to unscrew and snap open the head to replace it.
I have owned this vacuum for about 2 years, and although the head is making unusual high-pitched noises that it didn't make before, I'm giving it 2 stars since I'm grateful it's still alive after spending over $400. My next vacuum... definately *not* an Electrolux :-)