ID: B000VJX7DW-R134VIO39YG9II-A3G007LQX6KGOD
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D300-12-3MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A3G007LQX6KGOD
ReviewerName: SevereWX
Date: November 17, 2008
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Most Bang for the Buck
Content:
The Nikon D300 DSLR is one of the most feature rich cameras for it's price. The Nikon D300 is is a rugged camera with a magnesium alloy frame and a fair amount of weather/dust sealing. The ruggedness of this camera is apparent from the moment you first pick up to handle it. The controls and buttons are well placed and easy to use, and if you've used other Nikon DSLRs, you'll find the D300 controls quite familiar with few exceptions.
At 12.3MP from it's DX sensor, the Nikon D300 offers crisp accurate colors and sharp detail that can't be found in the lower priced consumer level cameras. The quality is especially noticeable in less than perfect shooting conditions such as poorly lit situations, where the auto-focus performance coupled with usable images up to the ISO 3200 range. That's not to say the D300 doesn't have noise at it's higher ISO settings, it does, but the noise levels are much more acceptable than past offerings such as the D200 or D100 Nikon DLSRs. The Nikon D300 can be pushed right up to ISO 6400 though the noise starts getting very ugly in this range, but it can make the difference in getting the shot or going home empty-handed.
With the Auto ISO feature, you can specify what ISO ranges you want the camera to work with, and what the slowest shutter speed is you want the camera to use before stepping up to a higher ISO level for you. This is especially helpful when photographing in fast-paced settings where you don't have time to fiddle with all the settings for a perfect exposure, the camera helps you get the shot faster, and gets you the proper exposure without dropping the shutter speed down into unacceptable ranges. I find this feature the most useful when shooting in aperture priority mode.
Many people find the Nikon D300 doesn't produce the eye-popping photos they expect right out of the box, but one needs to bear in mind that the D300 isn't a consumer level camera, and shouldn't be expected to perform as one. It's definitely worth the time to learn how to properly use all the features this camera has to offer. The images from the D300 are at their best once you set the camera up to your own personal shooting style, and learn some good processing techniques in photo-processing software such as the excellent Nikon Capture NX2 or equally impressive Adobe Lightroom programs.
The Multi-CAM 3500DX auto-focus system on the Nikon D300 is very impressive, and even in the lowest light settings, I've not had any problems with the D300 acquiring focus nearly instantaneously without having to resort to using the annoying focus-assist lamp which I keep turned off. The 51-point 3D focus tracking is especially impressive, and as to date it's been able to keep up with any demanding situation I've tasked it with such as indoor sporting events and night-time action photography.
I could go on and on about all the countless features of the Nikon D300, but you can read about them easily enough in the product feature list, or the multitude of reviews that are nothing but rehashed feature lists with little insight offered into the actual functionality of those features. Suffice it to say, of all the features the Nikon D300 puts on the table, they all work with a level of precision that won't leave you disappointed. Once you take the time to learn to use all the features this camera has to offer, and how they work together, there's hardly a shooting situation you wouldn't be able to handle with this gem of a DX sensored DSLR.