ID: B0007QKN22-R24G27HZ5Y9A0T-AVU2Y3VNOGP3N
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-f3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: AVU2Y3VNOGP3N
ReviewerName: Brian W. Phillips
Date: January 26, 2007
Helpful: 13 of 13
Rating: 5.0
Title: Rebel XT
Content:
Just got my Rebel XT, and I can put into words how much fun it is to take pictures.  I have used film SLRs for over 20 years.  Then a couple of years ago I bought a Nikon point and shoot.  But I still preferred my film slr, except for that fact that I had to buy film, take the pictures, then wait for the results.  I used the point and shoot more and more, for the instant results.  But my wife and I got frustrated with the lag time, and the fact that most of the pictures with the point and shoot had to be posed.  When I used my old Minolta (x700) and Nikon(N6006) slrs, all the pictures were spontaneous and captured the moments as they occurred. We were never able to do that with the Point and Shoot.  So we decided to bite the bullet and buy into the DSLR world.  I looked and compared for months on the best camera.  "What brand should I buy?, How many MP? What price range??????
What sold me on the Canon was the cost and the quality of pictures it takes.  I could have bought a more expensive camera, but then that would have left me with little money to add on.  I took one piece of advice from the message boards and that was to not worry about the camera body, invest your money in glass.  And coming from the film slr world that makes perfect sense.  So we bought the Rebel XT.
I have had it for two days and can only say how great it is.  I love being able to compose pictures like I use to do with my film slrs, but being able to see the results instantly.  I love being able to make adjustments and reshoot it instantly, not a week later when I got the film back.  Yesterday I fired off 150 shots, which I never would have done with the film SLR, because of cost, and I probably would be waiting for the shutter on my point and shoot.
I know the Rebel isn't the perfect camera.  I wish I had a bigger LCD and the grip was a little more comfortable, but that is superficial.  It is what is on the inside that counts.  I compare it to owning a Toyota; it isn't the most luxurious car, but it gets the job done.  I would love to have the BMW, but I can do most of the same things with the Toyota.