ID: B00008UI0R-R3FFOLREWCY1RX-A1D45ZHOPX3HW5
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A1D45ZHOPX3HW5
ReviewerName: Steven M Menapache "Horror Guy"
Date: September 25, 2006
Helpful: 21 of 21
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best of the Best!
Content:
I've owned about 5 vacuums before this model.. from the cheapies to the ultra-expensive, this one beat them all. Unlike most reviews that are for products people have tried once or twice, I've owned this vacuum for 3 years now and it's just as amazing as the first time I used it. I'm even thinking about getting a second and storing it for fear that one day I'll be without it and will have to settle with another inferior model. The things I loved about it... the convenience, the POWER, the overall design, the quietness compared to any other brand or model, and even the "looks". 
The Convenience was obvious from the beginning.. one canister to empty simply enough without ever using a bag or spending a dime on accessories, the seperate Hand-Unit that actually Extends a long distance to get completely under all beds, including KingSize beds. It's very lightweight, and agile enough to take anywhere where other vacuums are too bulky or tough to manuever.. this one has them beat.
The Power.. surprised me to no end.. the amount of dust and hair and grime you collect was simply stunning. But the Biggest surprise was the Hand-unit's Power.. (Word of advice) when you activate the hand unit, HANG ONTO IT! It's so powerful it was actually Pullng me into rooms like an SUV on Nitro.
The quietness.. for those of us that are the observers in a household and go nuts at the scream of vacuums that make the cackles on the back of your neck stand up, I was stunned at how quiet (with POWER) this vacuum had. I could honestly talk at a normal voice or even a soft tone and someone standing next to me would be able to hear what I said. It's so UNannoying, it's heaven.
The only downside I have to the vacuum is not much of a beef, and doesn't really effect everyone, but if you vacuum up kitty-litter, (as some owners have to deal with) eventually the filter will clump up after about 5 or 6 months.. thankfully it's cleanable and doesn't need a replacement every time, but of course you have to scrape out each individual rim of the filter and that can take some patience, as well of course you have to set it aside overnight to dry before reinstalling or any dirt will cake back into a wet filter.. other then that, you couldn't ASK for a better vacuum.. I'll never switch to another brand or model because this was simply the best of the best.