ID: B000WG1RKY-RX71PLJG3K87J-A2TBA25URCVPLO
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Generation
ReviewerID: A2TBA25URCVPLO
ReviewerName: M. Hoelting
Date: January 7, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Testing the portable media waters again
Content:
To be honest, when I got a Zune for Christmas, I wasn't too sure that I'd like it.  I had an iPod before, but like almost everyone I know, it broke  (non-mechanical failure, no less!) and simply wasn't worth repairing for $100+.  As a result, I decided I'd just be fine without an mp3 player during my workouts and such.
When I first opened the Zune, I was pleasantly surprised at the very small size.  It is comparable to my brother's older iPod Nano, but has a much larger screen.  The menus worked well and the touch sensitive scrolling is very simple.  The layout and operation are nice and easy, as expected for such a device.
After going through the installation process, I just highlighted all the artists in my music library and dragged them to sync.  It takes a while to put 8 gigs of music on to one of these, but that's to be expected, obviously.  I also tested out a video file just to see (I don't think I'll be keeping videos on this for the most part; I have too much music fighting for the space) and it looked great.  The subtitles were small but legible.  The radio works well - I didn't test the wireless stuff or the podcasts yet since I don't know anyone with a Zune.
The music quality is pretty much what you'd expect.  MP3s sound the about the same no matter what the source is.  The headphones are what makes the difference.  The earbuds that come with the Zune are fine if you like that style, but they always seem to fall out of my ears when I move my head (the iPod ones did too), so I spent 10 bucks on a cheapo pair of Philips headphones that clip onto your ears at Wal-mart.  If you've got problems with regular earbud headphones and aren't an audiophile, I'd recommend the simple, cheap, hook-on earbud-style headphones.  I can hear my music and the world around me (if I want to) without a problem.
The only complaint I have with the Zune is the lack of cases/accessories, but hopefully more will come once they become popular.  I've been hearing more and more positive reviews of the Zune and, I know a ton of people that are tired of their iPods breaking after only a year or so of casual use, so perhaps the iPod won't rule the world completely in the future.  I'm definitely very pleased with mine and would gladly recommend it to anyone.