ID: B000GUP9D2-R2WVWN85RX9DFL-A22V7II9B5S05Q
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-Oil-2dFilled-Radiator-Heater-28TRN0812T-29
ReviewerID: A22V7II9B5S05Q
ReviewerName: a reader "lgoose"
Date: June 20, 2008
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: safe and quiet
Content:
I bought this heater for my daughter's nursery.  Her room is always a little colder than the rest of the house and I wanted to add a few degrees with a heater that was extremelly safe for children and absolutely quiet. I wanted a short heater that would be safe in case my child tips it over. Also, this one is small and looks nice in white. This heater did the job, even though I was doubting at first.  We got rid of the initial smell by running the heater in the garage at full temperature for one day.  This was specified in the instructions, which said that they cover the heater with some protecting layer for shipping.   The heater was quiet for many weeks, and then one day starting making some noise.  I discovered that it was due to some bubbles that were produced when my daughter tipped it over.  The solution was to gently shake the heater a little, which I think removed all bubbles.  After that, we haven't had any noise.  The most important part is that we set this heater at lower heating, and that is enough to raise the temperature in the room a few degrees.  This works very nicely for us because the heater is not too hot to the touch and it safe even if my daughter wants to touch it.  In terms of the manual regulation, I think that there are some advantages.  Electronic settings tend to break often, so having all manual settings will make for a more durable machine.   To set the temperature, you have to wait until you feel the proper temperature has been reached and then lower the thermostat until it clicks.  This is not as convinient as just setting a temperature with a number dial, and that is why I give only four stars to this review. On the other hand, sometimes is better to determine the right temperature by how it feels in the room betten than by what the machine says.  Finally, regarding the timer setting, we don't use it that much because my husband prefers to unplug the heater when we are not home, but it seemed to me very easy to figure out and quite practical.  You can set it every 15 mins on and off and all you have to do is move the little pegs in or out.  Very straighforward.