ID: B000JLKIHA-R1V503J21XF7Q4-A19UKSNXNZX1I1
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-classic-Black-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A19UKSNXNZX1I1
ReviewerName: SteveS
Date: November 25, 2007
Helpful: 25 of 29
Rating: 1.0
Title: iPod Classic Skips
Content:
All iPod Classics Skip
I have two iPods:
* The iPod Classic Model A1238 - MB150LL, Firmware V1.0.2 PC, 6th generation and 
* The older iPod 80G Model A1136 - MA450LL, Firmware V1.2.1, , 5th generation (the one with the glossy front face).  
The new iPod Classic skips when playing WAV and other lossless file formats loaded via iTunes...but its predecessor does not.  
I synced about 20G of the exact same lossless and MP3 music on both iPods (5G & 6G).  
The older 80G iPod does not skip. 
The iPod Classic 160G skips on all of the songs...  It skips on every song in exactly the same place every time I play the song.  By skipping, I mean, the song plays and then suddenly stops and the iPod goes on to the next song.  
In iTunes, I can select the song in the iPod Classic library and it plays through the whole song on the PC.  
I finally took the iPod classic back to Apple and they gave me a new one.  The replacement iPod Classic does exactly the same thing.  The songs skip in exactly the same place they did on the one I took back.  
I've read on a bunch of web sites where a lot of other people have been having the same problem.
Technically it could be a parity problem, a certain bit configuration or something to do with the gapless feature of the iPod.  
Apple suggested that I can fix the problem by take the original CD and rip it using iTunes and then syncing the iPod.  But if the CD has a tiny bad spot in it, the song will still skip. 
Apple's stated solution for the skipping problem is to run (sync) the song through the MP3 compression using iTunes.  
But, the reason for the 160G was to be able to load and play lossless files.  
This has been a challenge since I bought the iPod Classic.  There are a bunch of us waiting for these problems with the iPod Classic to be fixed.  
If you are considering purchasing an iPod for this purpose, save your money.   Apple has in essence said they have no intention of fixing this problem.