ID: B00005LEXI-R217HZLZEITKMH-A2WXIJTI5PEV9N
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Mr-Heater-MRHF273400-Buddy-Portable
ReviewerID: A2WXIJTI5PEV9N
ReviewerName: Daniel Rutkowski
Date: December 19, 2003
Helpful: 56 of 58
Rating: 4.0
Title: The Absence of Heat is Cold
Content:
After several months of field testing this heater, I found it capable of producing some convenient heat. It competes in a market that includes a lot of products. I have used this heater in a garage, basement and while camping.
Some observations:
1. Outside at your campsite, it is easy to light and carry around, and can be a great radiant heater to warm your hands and face on a cold morning without the fuss of building a fire. Inside a five to six person tent, it warmed the space quite nicely on the high setting. In a tent, I would not take a chance to burn it without keeping at least an open space around it and an open eye on it. While the front has a steel grille to shield the user from direct contact with the burning surface, contact with the grille and top of the unit by skin or manmade materials can result in burns or melted items.
2. The heater is PORTABLE, and portability is your friend. It is very easy to pack or carry anywhere. This is a VERY COMPACT unit that will go nearly anywhere. However, It will NOT heat a large unenclosed space, and it is not a blast furnace.
3. One interesting thing that happens when you burn the heater for any length of time in a cool area is that moisture condenses on the outside of the metallic disposable propane cylinder. The condensation eventually turns to frost and if you sit the heater on top of something that can be damaged by water, you definitely want to put an absorbent cloth under the tank to catch any drops of water when it starts to condense or as the frost melts.
4. Since this is an unvented heater, products of combustion such as carbon dioxide, carbon monoxide and some slight odor are released into the heated space; this is common with all such heaters. Adequate oxygen must also be supplied to facilitate burning as well as to sustain life. The low oxygen shutoff is a good safety feature. People with sensitivity to odors or products of combustion would not appreciate this; I have one such person in my household and he has not enjoyed the smell.
5. There is an open flame in the form of the pilot light which sits just in front of the surface of the ceramic plate seen in the picture. The pilot ignites the gas on the surface of the ceramic plate; that is what causes the plate to glow orange. The pilot is lighted by a built-in sparker. I have found the pilot to be harder to light with a propane extension hose attached than with the disposable cylinder on board.
I have used kerosene heaters, catalytic heaters, electric space heaters. All of them produce heat, but this is the handiest heater I have ever used.