ID: B000HE8T9I-RY69UQO1E1XKZ-AIVNUYR7XTGNZ
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Infinity-Upright-Vac-2d-NV30
ReviewerID: AIVNUYR7XTGNZ
ReviewerName: Joseph Comstock "Joby"
Date: July 15, 2007
Helpful: 30 of 30
Rating: 4.0
Title: Nice little vacuum, if you read the manual.
Content:
I bought the Infiniti at Costco, having heard nothing about it before I bought it. When I got it home, I read several reviews, and was so frightened I probably would have brought it back immediately if Costco wasn't already closed. But I tried it anyway.
First, I read the manual. Most of the problems others have mentioned are described in the manual, along with their cures. The handle must click into place or it will come out, for instance. To lock the unit in the upright position, push it all the way forward until you hear a click. To keep the unit from tipping over when you use the hose attachments, clamp the hose into the lower bracket, as the manual says. I have done all of these, and have not had the problems others mention. When all else fails, read the instructions.
When I first started the vacuum, I ran over a dirty spot in the carpet, and the dust and crumbs stayed where they were. I thought "Curses, it does lack power, as others have said!" (Yes, I talk like a pirate at times--blame Jery Bruckheimer!). I turned the unit off and, as the manual had said, I checked the height adjuster for the carpet. I had misunderstood the machine's symbols, and set it on highest instead of lowest. I reversed this setting. Vrooom, up came the crumbs. The thing picked up everything--crumbs, cat hair, a crusty spot on the carpet that I thought I was going to have to treat--my old vacuum had not worked on it. I had to empty the dust cup twice before I finished my living/dining room, because the vacuum was picking up cat hair my old vacuum had missed. This unit does NOT lack power.
Now, the bad stuff. The dust cup fills quickly, and is a bit awkward to clean. It empties from the bottom with the click of a lever, but in real life, I had to take the cup apart and remove the mesh filter to get all the dust out. That might be because of the cat hair in my apartment.
In addition to the dust cup, there is the "Upper Cyclonic Chamber," which has to be cleaned after every few uses, at least. It attaches to the top of the dust cup, and has twenty-four little chambers--this is supposed to eliminate the power drop other vacuums get when they begin to fill. To clean, you twist it off the top of the dust cup, release the little door on the chamber and shake out the dirt. This takes two hands, because the chamber is awkwardly shaped. Then you have to fill the chamber with water through a little drain hole and shake it clean. Not too difficult, but not as smooth as it sounds. Apparently, if this is not done after every couple of vacuums the machine could begin to lose effectiveness. Once rinsed, the unit has to dry overnight before it is ready to use again, the instructions say. So, don't wash until you are done. I made this mistake--I washed it before I vacuumed my couch, and had to wait until the next day.
There are also two filters to clean, in the bottom of the unit, but these only need occasional cleaning. The HEPA filter is washable and reusable.
Last, the construction. It seems somewhat sturdy, but not really solid. The handle is also the hose wand, and slides down into a shaft. There is some play in the handle, which may wear the little ball-clasps out over time, so mine might develop the handle issue others have mentioned.
Anyway, that covers it. Overall, I like the vacuum, and hope it holds up. It gets my carpet noticably cleaner than my old vacuum, and the room smells better, too. The headlight is useful. The unit is quieter than average, and only frightened one of my cats. Read the manual to avoid some of the problems others have mentioned.