ID: B000G1DAKA-R2JJHHLSVU26MD-AFILJ36FCZMW5
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-K100D-Digital-Camera-Reduction
ReviewerID: AFILJ36FCZMW5
ReviewerName: I. Pedigo
Date: August 25, 2007
Helpful: 20 of 20
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Camera, Great Images for novice or expert
Content:
After whats seems months and months of research into a DSLR, I had my sights on this camera and a D40 from Nikon(The Canon lower end cameras were such chinsy little plastic pieces I took them out of consideration).  Side by side, the Nikon's images looked really great and sharp directly from the camera's auto function, and because this camera would also be used by my wife, I thought that would be nice, since she is not as much of an enthusiast as I am.  I enjoy manually adjusting settings.
I did online comparisons on every single review website out there.  I liked the Pentax's natural looking color tones.  Some people say they are too warm.  I like this as opposed to the colder images of the other camera.  The D40 seems like a very reliable brand family to enter and since they are so popular it would be good to fit in with everyone else on the streets shooting away.  I still wasn't sure until going into a store to look at each one side by side.  I started with the D40.  It felt good, the menu looks good, the manual focus part of the lens felt like a toy.  And it was very lightweight.
I picked up the K100D and the feeling was a lot different.  The camera has a nice bit of weight to it.  The finish and the exterior is really nice. It feels and looks like more of a professional camera than a consumer/entry/beginner level DSLR unlike the D40 (even worse--the XT/XTI) I looked through the viewfinder and felt right at home, starting to take pictures and lost my focus on trying to inspect the camera for purchasing.  Some people complain about autofocus noise, shutter noise, or the autofocus hunting in the dark.  I feel that there are some who's hearing is extremly sensitive or they are shooting primarily in libraries and churches.  After working with this camera, the auto focus is fast.  If it misses focus (maybe 1 out of 10 times)you press the button again and it always finds it right away.  You wasted maybe 1 second.  All point and shoot cameras I had before were MUCH worse in this category.  If you are into manual focusing I do not think it is actually possible to be physically fast than if you went with auto focus.
Images look really balanced right out of the camera.  Not as sharp as the D40, but this is ONLY because of a difference in processing style.  I have read about Pentax's imaging philosophy and for me it really makes sense.  The in camera processing is not heavy-handed.  They are going for a more film-like appearance.  This means lighting which casts a warm hue takes a warm hue in the image rather than always looking like cool white  fluorescent lighting.  The images just looks more natural.  The same for the ISO settings which are not over laden with noise reduction.  Yes you get grain at 1600 ISO (as with every camera) but the grain is actually more film like.  Detail is not missing like the other's happy processing engines.  For these reasons, I would say the K100D seems more like an photo enthusiast's camera, the D40 seems more like its designed as point and shoot DSLR.
I think that this camera is good for the whole range of people who want to shoot.  I'm happy with this purchase for sure.