ID: B0007Y79AI-R2JZ7GS4C6BTAN-AWLQ68DGI4J55
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Black-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: AWLQ68DGI4J55
ReviewerName: ISOcrazy "MPL"
Date: December 22, 2006
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Perfect blend of art and science!
Content:
iPod arrived late thanks to blunders by Amazon, shipping 2day order via UPS Ground and UPS, forgetting to load the package to delivery truck. I never liked Apple anyway. Never had any Apple device. Never like their policies of using proprietary devices and software not compatible with anything else in the market. But I love gadgets and work with computer hardware so I love modern technology. I hated Apple purely on other people's views. So finally when my daughter told me only thing she wanted this Christmas is an Apple iPod I was mad. But I love my daughter so I decided to swallow my pride and order an iPod thinking I will be able to return it quickly when she compare it with the MP3 player she already have. Last Christmas I gave her best non Apple MP3 player I could find. iPod arrived today and I wanted to just make sure it work so I opened it. It was a mistake!
It was a long time since I experienced this feeling of love at first sight and it was an incredible feeling. I just stared at the package for a long time. The colors (or the absence of it), the shape and size is breathtaking (yes I am talking about the box, and I have not yet opened it). Then I open it WOW, every thing is so logical and easy from how you open the box to presentation and color selection of every component in it including printed words and beauty of absence of lengthy instructions but preserving essence of order and logic of natural progression of events that lead from one to another building up on each to guide you seamlessly is breathtaking. It is a perfect blend of pure art and advance science to create minimalist but highly functional device design to educated and empower you instead of being your slave. It defines a new life style that changes your habits and expectations. I have no feeling to fully describe it. Yes I know it has no FM radio but Podcast, it has no multiple file format support but iTunes, it has no voice recorder but touch-wheel. It does not give you the past but take you to the future. It is long time I have felt this way and I thank Apple for creating a device that touched my soul and brought out the hidden passion in me I thought lost long time ago.