ID: B000JO7RVC-R3HD6G0U0CNR5G-AJS43VGQQ986
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-classic-Silver-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: AJS43VGQQ986
ReviewerName: Chandan Sharma "Chandan"
Date: February 4, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: World changing product but with learning curve.
Content:
I switched over from Creative's Muvo Slim to iPod 80 GB Black. I had been using the Muvo since last 2 years switching to iPod was a little tough for me in beginning. It lacks lot of features, it lacks compatibility, it's not comfortable. I mean it's like slavery, well that's how I really felt everytime I had to switch on my system to sync it with iTune that to from my profile. 
Though I bought it for myself but it feels that it does not belong to me. As if it belongs completely to Apple of to Mr. Jobs for that matter. The reason I say this is because, I am a developer, I work for best of the best web designs, I talk about Open Source, I talk about Web 2.0, Simplicity, User centric applications and design. The simplicity of iPod is limited to the look and feel. The internal functionality is completely of it's own, might be good for people using MAC. But it's complex in operation. I feel it lacks flexibility.
I was reading a book recently and found out that people like to be a part of the iPod cult, flashing the white earphones. There are many excellent products available, I recommend Creative not just because I used it but because I could connect it to any machine, could arrange songs as per folders, can delete the songs from the device itself, you would be satisfied with it because of what it is and what value it gives you NOT just because you belong to a cult. I had no choice but to buy Bose earphones to listen to iPod. The audio and video quality of iPod is great (depends mostly upon the quality of songs). But the iTune thing I hate most, it takes most of my time trying to arrange things. 
The learning curve for iTune and iPod sync is the worst part for busy people like me. May be this is the reason it's a hit amongst the teens. The concept does not even resemble something that I can get from my memory and use to learn it. Learn to use something completely new from scratch, if you are a busy person ask your secretary to arrange things for you every time. God bless you!!!