ID: B0002T3UPG-R272LG3CAB8R5K-A1TP2RW7KDI5AZ
Category: MP3Players
Product: Sony-NW-HD1-Network-Walkman-Digital
ReviewerID: A1TP2RW7KDI5AZ
ReviewerName: John Werner
Date: January 23, 2005
Helpful: 7 of 11
Rating: 2.0
Title: Like a  Porsche 911  w/  Tires Made of Solid Granite!
Content:
This thing could be not just a iPod beater, but THE iPod beater.  Instead I'd rather have a $100 flash based player like the Rave-MP258 (actually had one).  Why?  Because the SonicStage softwear is the most crippling act of sabotague I've ever seen a manufacturer ruin their product with.  It's like if Porsche decided to ship the 911 with granite tires.  Hell of a product, but does not work worth a $#!+.
SonicStage has something called openMG.  It checks for some kind of digital copyright but wouldn't even let me transfer ripped wma files on my pc which came from my own cd's?  How goofy is that.  Forget drag and drop...I like the convenience of that, but even though "My Computer" showed transfer of mp3s to the the Sony (drive H on my pc) when I tried to play them they weren't there.
Sony continues to disappoint.  Years ago it was Beta. They did not share the format to others at first and then JVC came along with VHS and licensed it to all who wanted to use it.  Bye, bye Betamax.
SACD will likely fail.  Try to find one in a disc store...You can't.  Plus while others like Marantz build universal DVD-A /SACD players, Sony in it's inane superiority builds only SACD players. No DVD-A support.  If multi-channel audio has a chance the only way is through universal players, but Sony will help send the whole concept to the grave with it's tunnel vision.
Don't buy any Sony digital music player unless you want total frustration like I've got.  I should have purchased an iPod by the new leader in personal audio, Apple...A #@** computer company can build finer audio equipment than the world's largest consumer electronics company...Whad'ya think about that.  Sony, no baloney...but a load of something for sure!