ID: B00067TTZO-R1QTZLJJIEXIPH-A2RU92TLE29NKH
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Zen-Micro-Player-Silver
ReviewerID: A2RU92TLE29NKH
ReviewerName: Anuj Agarwal
Date: January 29, 2005
Helpful: 43 of 45
Rating: 5.0
Title: An excellent product despite a few minor flaws
Content:
I have owned a Zen Micro for about a week and absolutely love it. I used to own a 20GB Zen before this and bought this 'cause my wife began to use my player. When i bought it, i did not have high expectations of it but now that i'm using it, i realize how its much better than my previous player. Why ? 
Size : The tiny size is perfect for just keeping it in your pocket whether you're listening to music or not. Anything bigger and you'll want to carry it around only when you plan to listen to music. This one, just have it on your person at all times. You won't even feel it
User interface : Using it is a joy. The touch pad interface is really cool and has just the right amount of senstivity
Sound Quality : The sound quality of this device is amazing. I have listened to the iPod in the Apple store (with their Bose headphones) and the sound of the Zen Micro is noticeably much better. I have a bunch of classical music in MP3 format that i never really appreciated before 'cause it sounded pretty flat in my previous MP3 player. Now i'm listening to it with a new-found enjoyment
Volume : You can really crank this thing up. The volume increments are from 1 to 25 and 16 is pretty loud. Go figure...
FM Radio : Its nice to have an FM radio in the player. I use it rarely but every once in a while when you want to hear the news or want to tune in to that TV program in your gym, this comes in handy
Recording :  The idea of being able to record FM radio is pretty cool. Also having a microphone in the player for you to record memos makes it much more useful. Haven't used this stuff but i'm glad its there
Removable battery :  Such a basic, necessary feature. Don't know why anyone would buy another product which forces them to pay big bucks after the battery stops holding charge like it used to in a year or two.
Software :  When it comes to installing software on my computer i'm a minimalist. So i was happy to learn that all i had to do for the Zen Micro, is install the USB driver and then when you connect it, i was able to use Windows Media Player 10 to transfer MP3s and view the files on my Micro. The Micro also has a feature where you can reserve some of the 5 GB space to show up as a removable drive when you plug it into a computer. That does not require any drivers. However that space cannot be used to play music.
Now for the flaws (I found i can live with them without loving my player any less)
FM Radio reception :  Not so good. Will only catch stations with a strong signal
Battery life :  This one is tricky. Apparently you can drain your battery pretty quickly if you do some things wrong. For example if you shutdown the player without pausing the currently playing song, it saps a lot of battery. Also if you spend a lot of time fooling around in the menus (which you will the first few days you have your new toy), the battery will only last 3 hours. But once you get past the 'new toy' phase and remember to pause before shutdown you can get respectable life out of it - at least 7 hours. For iPod users maybe this is not a flaw, but my older 20GB Zen gives me at least 15 to 16 hours.