ID: B000EPHPPE-R1Z1CLFDK39OCE-A2UTLJJWNBL4YS
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Video-White-MA448LL-Generation
ReviewerID: A2UTLJJWNBL4YS
ReviewerName: A. G. Corwin
Date: December 14, 2006
Helpful: 12 of 12
Rating: 4.0
Title: Four stars for the size, functionality, and ease of use....But c'mon Apple, make a scratch resistant case already!
Content:
I have been an IPod fan for a while and was thrilled to see this new model come out in 80GB with video capability, color screen and the whole works. This is a perfect item for those who want to carry around the bulk of their music as well as their online video library. For those like me who have hours of tv shows and movies I like to carry around, the 80GB version is definitely the better way to go than the 30GB. Battery life is excellent and the color screen is crisp and clear, although I still hate the earbuds with a passion bordering on wanting to crush them with a bat. "I'll show you PC LOAD LETTER!" 
The casing is sleek and very visually appealing, but looks apparently come at the price of the high sensitivity to scratching. Even babying the IPod wont keep it from getting dinged. You would have thought they could have fixed this by now, but they didn't, and that's a big negative for this model. At least this problem is a known commodity, allowing you to decide if it's worth the money. And speaking of worth, the price point seems well suited for Christmas buyers. For 80GB of memory (the average hard drive size on a laptop) $300 or so is not bad. 
Think about the type of use you want to get out of it, and then make the your decision. If you are more a music fan with the occasional video, then go with the 30GB, and spend the extra on accessories. Some excellent headphones would be a great place to start. If there are mechanical issues, Apple will fix them under the warranty. I've had several mechanical issues with my first generation shuffle and first generation mini, and I had replacements for both in a week. If you know you are going to get the 80GB IPod, wait a few weeks after christmas. The price points usually drop a bit as Apple gets ready to start rolling out updated models. All in all, a solid product from a solid name... 
A.G. Corwin 
St.Louis, MO