ID: B000G1CXZI-RGXEUHUDLLS23-A18GISJ791R0YQ
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-TRN0812T-Portable-Oil-Filled-Programmable
ReviewerID: A18GISJ791R0YQ
ReviewerName: Michael T. Andrade
Date: October 29, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 3.0
Title: Didn't like the GFCI plug
Content:
This unit appears to be the replacement for the delonghi TRN1015T, which I purchased in November of 2006 to replace another delonghi oil-filled heater that had sprung a leak.  This is the third delonghi oil-filled heater that I have purchased and just as with many mass-produced consumer products these days, they just don't last like the older models.  The very first one of these heaters that I bought lasted 10 years before one of the switches burned up.  I replaced it with a newer model which  worked very well until the day that I walked into the room and found the room full of thin blue smoke.  The unit had sprung a leake and most of the oil ended up in my carpet.  Luckily, this room had a carpet that was just lying on a concrete slab with no padding underneath.  If this had been wall-to-wall carpeting, it could have been a real mess.  I suspect that this is a rare occurrance, as I've never heard of this happening before.  That was when I bought my current unit, the TRN1015T.  The GFCI plug got very warm whenever the unit was on.  So did the cord, especially when using the high setting.  Last winter the GFCI plug burned up.  This happened in the middle of one of the coldest nights we had last winter.  I happened to have a brand new plug in my tool kit, so I replaced the GFCI plug with a regular one and the unit worked fine.  The cord never gets warm now no matter what setting I use.  Near the end of last winter, the timer quit.  I now have a heater that still works fine, but no longer has a working timer.  I do want to say that in spite of these problems, I still like these heaters and I will be buying another one soon.  They heat up quickly and are very efficient.  The next one that I buy will NOT have the GFCI plug!