ID: B00008NRTZ-R2ROCOM50LKIRQ-A1BXG0K7UD9CTD
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-6900-DigiPro-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A1BXG0K7UD9CTD
ReviewerName: MicTrik "mictrik"
Date: January 14, 2004
Helpful: 46 of 51
Rating: 1.0
Title: Don't be fooled you will not get true HEPA output!!
Content:
Yes this vacuum is lite, it's small, it has very good suction and reasonable (a bit small) tools.  Though one of the biggest reasons many people buy it is for is it's proclaimed HEPA filtration.  This seems like false advertising and I shall explain why.    The unit is advertised to provide HEPA filtration but most of the exaust is not expelled through the filter!! Rather it is expelled through the rear of the vacuum where the cord is attached.  This is likely because the unit is not sealed.   A HEPA filter is attached on the exaust port at the top of the unit but exaust is routed out of cracks do to back-pressure from the HEPA filter.  HEPA filters can catch particles as small as 3 microns and this makes them very resistant to air flow.  Back pressure is built up due to this resistance and the resulting pressure forces the air to escape through paths of lesser resistance.  Unfortunately this releases most all the molds, dust mites, and other allergins into the air.  As matter of fact it seems that the filter may only filter 15% of the exaust on this vacuum, the rest finds its way out the cord release and other cracks.  Bottom line the unit is flawed by design and saying it offers HEPA filtration is a lie.  Anyone who designed this vacuum had to of known this to be true before it hit the market.  Their is just about no way any design engineer could of overlooked this.  Bissell desided to sell the unit anyway and claim it has HEPA filtration.  What a con...  Now many people will purchase this unit and never realize that it is not providing the level of filtration it advertised.  I did call their customer service and the service rep (very nice) did confirm that exaust was also expelled from the rear on the sample unit they had in the office. This was all he could say.  I Would love to hear from someone at Bissell with regard to this.  It would be nice to see a company stand behind their claims.  Untill then no stars!!!