ID: B000GTR2F6-R1DOUDOQ1DA8ZV-A2UQF1VR4M9QOL
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Platinum-Single-Cup-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: A2UQF1VR4M9QOL
ReviewerName: David Mccall "Reviewer@Large"
Date: March 10, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 1.0
Title: Great WHEN it wants to work
Content:
This B70 'Platinum' brewer was a wedding gift - - - excuse me, the FIRST one of these we got was a wedding gift.  I am now on my 4th B70, and the new replacement (having arrived two weeks ago) is now not working properly.  Don't get me wrong, I think this is an ingenious idea, and when it works is absolutely fabulous.  I love the different K-cups that are available, and have purchased many different blends.  Problem is, these things break down so quickly that there is no way I could ever recommend purchasing one.  I am so frustrated with this thing that I am seriously considering not even calling Keurig to get myself a 5th one because I feel already that it will break down in a short amount of time as well.
I will say that their customer service department is VERY good.  Either that or they are so used to fielding so many trouble calls that they are old hand at it!  No matter what the reasoning behind their professionalism, they are very good and put the customer as priority one.  On my first breakdown they asked me to package it up and send it back with a label that they paid for.  My 2nd and third brewer they said to just hold onto them for parts.  Well, since I am no 'Mr. Fix It' that wasn't going to be the case, but it was nice that they let me hold onto it and not go through the hassle of re-packaging and sending it back.  So, now they sit in my basement.
I guess I will call to get a new one since they are so accommodating, but I just wish the thing would stay working.  I just don't get how so many of these can be defective.  Oh, and by the way, each problem has been different and the Keurig customer service people have acknowledged that they knew of each separate problem occurring with the machines.  Maybe the more expensive models are better, I don't know.  I would suggest that if you really want to try one of these, go to your local warehouse club (BJ's, Costco, Sam's) and get the cheap one that is offered under $100 so you can at least save a buck or two should your machine become the same trouble my ones have become.  Under no circumstances do I suggest the Tassimo as a solution.  My Sister has one and has had just as many problems, with less flavor selection, noisier machine (when working) and not very sturdy construction.