ID: B000VDQ38E-RWJ4JL2SOA2JD-A1AH11V67CBEAX
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1AH11V67CBEAX
ReviewerName: Mr (and Mrs) Delish
Date: April 5, 2009
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 2.0
Title: Not worth the price
Content:
Alright... so I caved and bought this vacuum, even though it was two times as much as the other vacuum I was considering (Tempo Widepath). Mostly because of Owen's review. I was very underwhelmed by it and will be returning it tomorrow. And it's not because of any "breaking" issues... I'm positive I didn't get a defective vacuum, so that's not why I'm rating it low.
For background, I have two Rhodesian Ridgebacks (shorthaired dogs). It's shedding season right now and they are poofing everywhere. Also we have one shorthaired cat. My DD Jaguar died when I tried to vacuum a couch pillow and we can't seem to fix it, so I looked at a hundred million vacuums and reviews and decided on this vacuum over a Tempo because of the tools and because it's bagless. Shoulda gone with the Tempo. 
Pros:
1) Quiet! I found it was much quieter than my Dirt Devil Jaguar (aka Breeze). Dogs didn't flee in terror... the baby didn't cry. Very nice.
2) Tools work well on my couch and actually get the hair off. (Be aware the tools can be purchased for $30 here on amazon for any vacuum, so certainly not a reason to buy this vacuum)
3) Easy to empty. Come on people, go empty it out in your dumpster. It's not that far and it'll keep the dust from floating around your house. My DD was ANNOYING to empty. You had to pull out the filter and bang it a hundred times to empty the canister.
4) Hose is nice and easy to use and access. My DD was a pain to hook up, but this is very easy and intuitive.
5) Seems to vacuum the bare floors fine. It didn't spit dirt back at me or anything, so that's good.
Cons:
1) Heavy. This thing is really heavy. It's a pain and makes my arm tired. And I live in a single level home.
2) Lint bar is completely useless. Also makes it hard to get right up to walls.
3) Tools fall off consistently. This might be because I use my leg to push vacuums forward though and I tend to bump the tools.
4) Attracts hair to itself in massive amounts. Gross! This thing looks like a dog itself when I'm done vacuuming... I have to vacuum it off with the hose. 
5) Not as effective as a $150 vacuum should be. I vacuumed without the lint bar the first time, on the second to lowest setting (last time I had vacuumed was a week earlier with my DD). 
Went around three rooms. Dust cup about half way full. It was mostly full of loose carpet fibers but also some dirt and some dog hair and my long hair. DD didn't pick up carpet fibers, so that was impressive I thought. But then I got down on my hands and knees and checked my carpet...
Carpet still had an average of 1 or 2 dog hairs per 2 square inches (on the non-frequented parts... more on the parts of the carpet my dog lays on). Sure, my carpet wasn't obviously covered in dog hair, but it wasn't before either. I was expecting this to pick up ALL of the dog hairs, not 85% of them. 
I had my daughter on the floor afterwards, and sure enough, she had all sorts of dog hair on her. This has not happened with my DD, so I know this is not picking up as well.
Anyway, I thought I'd give the thing another try... so two days later, I put the vacuum on the "Bare Floor" setting and went over two rooms TWICE each. The thing picked up about a quarter of a canister full of dirt and dog hair; no carpet fibers this time. 
Got down on my hands and knees and looked... and... still 1 or 2 dog hairs per 2 square inches. 3 or 4 in the frequented areas. Went back over the most frequently laid on area with the lint bar down, three times. Got on hands and knees... same thing. There was dog hair laying on TOP of the carpet that STILL hadn't been picked up.
What a waste!
I would suggest not purchasing this vacuum! It is not worth $150.