ID: B00006IUVC-R15M4276TGQW3I-A6B2J6LS0G1Y2
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-DCM1350-VersaBrew-Programmable
ReviewerID: A6B2J6LS0G1Y2
ReviewerName: Jennie
Date: September 1, 2004
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: I've had worse..........
Content:
This is a hand me down from my mother in law as I am "in between" coffee makers so it is about a year old.  The first thing I will note is that this is a Model DCM 1250.  It's the exact same as this 1350, but only WalMart sold the 1250 (a common practice where a deal occurs between stores and the manufacturer.  Because of the slight difference in model number you cannot go to another store and utilize their "we'll beat anyone's price". Anyways, back to this coffee maker.  Not a bad pot for the price, but it does have it's quirks.  But I have been reading reviews on coffee makers for days now and they all do.  
   THE GOOD:
  1 - The coffee is HOT and stays hot.  Hotter than any other unit I have owned including both perculators and drip types.  I think this may be because of the larger bottom of the carafe and the larger burner plate.
  
  2 - Safety -- the carafe handle is sturdy and attached by a nice wider than usual band of metal which is in a groove farther up the pot than most.  I never feel like the pot is going detach from the handle.
  3 - Taste -- It makes a decent cup of coffee.  Not the greatest, but it is more than acceptable to me and I am very picky.  I've had hundred dollar machines that taste as good, but the machine has died after months.  As I said, this is a hand me down and I am going to run a cleaner through it.  If I notice a big difference in taste I will ammend this review.  Also, I do drink the coffee out of the pot for a few hours rather than transferring it to a carafe.  The taste quality does go down but less so in this one than many others I have had. 
 
  4 - Filters -- It uses the regular basket type of filter. I have had both, but have not notices a difference so I prefer not to spend the extra money on cone filters.  I have never had a problem with the swing basket not latching.
  5 - Brewing --  I am using less coffee in this unit than I did in any other one I have ever owned.  I put my normal amount in the first time and it was way too strong.  Brew time after being a year old is about 10 minutes for a full pot (12 cups).  That is acceptable to me.  Maybe more so since I am sleeping, but even during the day I can wait 10 minutes. 
  6 -- I LOVE the smaller size of this unit.  Many new onesare huge, taking up a ton of space. This unit is not much bigger than many of the 4 cup or even single/double "to go" thermal cup models out there right now.  I have a Melitta two cup unit that is wider and taller by at least an inch and a half.
  7 -- I LOVE the "old" style of it rather than the new "euro" styles.  I have a country kitchen and it doesn't look out of place.
  8 -- Separate on and off buttons.  Not only does this prevent the mistake of actually hitting the button twice therefore turning it on for another few hours it is less wear and tear on one single button.
  9 -- Auto shutoff - ok, I'm not perfect.  I forget too!
     THE BAD
  1 -  I do notice that as I am setting up the pot it is difficult to get the pot underneath the spring part that is for the mid brew pouring feature.  However, once the pot has been brewed and the piece is warmed I do not have any problem getting the pot back in after pouring a cup.
  2 -- Carafe - Yes, if you are used to new models that have been redesigned to pour better than this is frustrating. But if anyone can remember the original drip pots of the 80's, this is a common problem unless you pour slowly.  I read the reviews on this pot before I even used it the first time and have not dribbled yet due to a little patience.  For me, I'll take this pot because of the larger surface area on the bottom touching the burner plate.  Also, with the redesigned ones, because of the different spout, the coffee has always sloshed as I placed the pot back into place until a few cups were out.
  3 - The clock is very small and tilted up.  I got used to looking at huge clock from across the room on my previous pot.  Not really important as most kitchens have a stove, microwave or regular clock in the kitchen.  But for anyone who depends on a coffee maker for their clock, be prepared to take a few steps and stay standing.
  4 - More than the usual nooks and crannies of newer models, but nothing serious. 
 
   THE UGLY
  As stated, this is a hand me down.  It is white so you get the inevitable stains.  But it stains inside the basket and only inside the tiny little opening on the lid.  Nothing that  anybody can see and make them think twice about eating off your dinnerware!  Of course you can always get black, but I always wonder if what you can't see may be worse then what you can??  At least I know the white is cleaned as best I can!  And seriously, even if you are standing right in front it, you are not going to see any stains.
  All in all, I like it.  I guess it's a matter of what "quirks" you can deal with.  But the coffe tastes good and it is hot.