ID: B0001GV5FM-R1N7ZEUUBX5KJ1-ARISWQTUDUZ1L
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Fujifilm-FinePix-S3-6-17MP-Digital
ReviewerID: ARISWQTUDUZ1L
ReviewerName: Oleg Moskvin "scientist & photographer"
Date: June 25, 2005
Helpful: 40 of 40
Rating: 5.0
Title: The revolution in digital imaging
Content:
This is the first digital camera which made me forget the film, after 27 years of photography experience. The image quality is beyond expectation. The performance is much slower compared to current Nikon dSLR models, including much more affordable Nikon D70. However, I owned D70 for about 1 year and could not treat it as a "real camera" because both the resolution of D70 is lower than that of good scams from 35mm film and the dynamic range is not as good. The S3 Pro IS The Real Camera. In terms of color rendition and dynamic range, it OUTPERFORMS the latest 35mm professional slide film. At the beginning, I was not happy with resolution (I could not see visible advantage over 6Mp Nikon D70), but this was actually an issue of lenses used. At 12 Mp mode, images looked too "interpolated" (they ARE partially interpolated but do not confuse this with upscaling of 6Mp files to 12 Mp - the sensor does have more resolution than 6 Mp - please read reviews about Super CCD design elsewhere). This "insufficient resolution" feeling was a result of using medium-quality Nikkor 24-85mm lens. This lens is good at 6 Mp but in 12 Mp mode its resolution is not enough to take advantage of the whole resolution of the camera sensor. When I put on a 55mm Micro-Nikkor, the resolution became shocking great! I could not see interpolation at 100% crop of 12 Mp images! The in-camera JPEGs are great, "robust" and do not usually need postprocessing. I usually stick to "normal" color and "original" tone settings, which helps to preserve more information in different lighting settings but sometimes this results in need of slight fine-tuning of the contrast. If you don't like postprocessing at all, use "standard" color AND "standard" tone instead. In most cases, images taken in this mode are almost perfect for printing right out of the camera. Downside: the camera performs relatively slow: if you take several shots in a row in RAW mode, the camera may be locked for half a minute (!) to write the files, and speed of reviewing the images is also awfully low. But I can easily accept these because the joy of having images of such high quality makes the incoveniences of slow performance insignificant for me.