ID: B0000SWABO-RUAAX6QXLYQBY-AD1GXZLAW689H
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL6984A-Harmony-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: AD1GXZLAW689H
ReviewerName: The Cleaner
Date: July 27, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 3.0
Title: First one is great, but second one howled!
Content:
It is hard to decide how many stars to give, because I have ordered 2 of these and the quality was very different!  First, I got an Electrolux EL6985A Harmony vacuum from Amazon in 2006, and that one definitely deserves five stars.  Then I ordered an EL6985B as a present in 2008, and it had such problems that we had to send it back.  I hope Amazon processes my refund quickly! 
First, my beloved old EL6985A:  it is quiet, lightweight, powerful, and really rather cute.  To the extent that it's possible to make me like cleaning the floors, this machine does it.  I ordered this after researching HEPA vacuums for allergy control.  It does a better job of filtering than my old (more expensive) Hoover.  (By the way, I recommend the Clinic bags --  Electrolux S-Bag Clinic Vacuum Bags, Set of 4 -- when your reorder.  They cut down on the dust inside the compartment and save on how often you have to change the HEPA filter.)  It was really important to me to get a vacuum that was lightweight and easy to move, and this was the lightest HEPA vacuum I found.  Also, the automatic cord winder, carrying handle, sliding adjustable power control, and little bracket for storing the hose and tube are very nicely designed.  It has been trouble-free for almost 2 years.  Not surprising then that when my mom needed a new vacuum recently, I wanted to get her another one just like mine.  But then. . . 
The hated new EL6985B: far from being "Ultra Quiet" as advertised, this new machine literally shrieks.  Even on low suction, it makes an intermittent really loud whining howl.  It is not a problem of the hose being blocked or the bag being full -- it just sometimes makes a terrible high pitched sound.  The noise comes and goes, but using the tools that came with the vacuum only makes the problem worse.  And I don't care how lightweight and powerful a vacuum is if it makes a startling noise that makes the dog start howling!  Also, while all the gadgets on my old one work smoothly, on the new one the clip on the extension tube (where it latches onto the hose) absolutely refused to release.  It took quite a bit of effort to get it to work so we could box the whole thing up and send it back. 
Right now I am wondering if the quality has gone down in the past two years, or if the problems in the second machine are just an unfortunate fluke.  Has anybody else had a similar problem with the Harmony?  Because I haven't been able to find another model HEPA vacuum with comparable features and weight, I would really like to re-order one for my mom, but not if it will just repeat these problems. What to do, what to do?