ID: B000V5P90K-R30V7IKQMFJSZR-A2GGKJ318HO2GE
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-40D-10-1MP-Digital-Body
ReviewerID: A2GGKJ318HO2GE
ReviewerName: Michael Horn "mikie"
Date: September 24, 2007
Helpful: 28 of 29
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excited 300D user goes upscale...
Content:
As a 3 year dRebel (300D) owner - I've spent the interval time acquiring better lenses than the kit lens I originally purchased rather than upgrade camera bodies. My old (300D) friend has served me well over the years with Battery Grip, Eye Piece Extender and a host of affordable Canon lenses that I've used for portrait and general walk-around photography. My review is more subjective that capability based - as it has renewed interest in portions of my hobby I've not experienced since the 35mm film days. This purchase has supercharged my excitement in digital photography like nothing since my first hands on with the 300D.
In looking for another camera body and lens combination - I considered the XT/XTi series but my attention quickly turned to the newest 40D. I'm a serious semi-pro (do extensive portrait work for formal charity fund raising events) and wanted to upgrade to a second camera body and give my charities the finest portrait work I could afford.
The 40D had enough features (many still being practiced from the manual-highly recommended) that allowed me to invest in this next generation camera body. I ordered the camera with the BG-E2 battery grip - Eyepiece Extender with a diaptor insert to compensate for my eyeglasses) side hand strap (which I absolutely LOVE) and the 28-135mm 'kit' lens to compliment my 'portrait posse' 50mm f1.8 and prime 85mm f1.8 that I also absolutely love - tack sharp and bokeh to die for (jmho)...
The body of the 40D is solid as a rock - the kevlar/plastic 300D never gave me problems - but... this inspires more 'confidence' to last a longer time (more camera - less expendable computer feel). The fps for action shots is outstanding - on a 4 gig CF memory card (SanDisk Extreme II) is adequate for my needs and pocketbook). 
Added to this was an upgrade from my 420EX TTL speedlight with a newer 580EXII ETTL which is giving me BEAUTIFUL indoor high ceilinged shots (using a flash diffuser) with no blowouts to date and great exposures over a variety of indoor situations. The 420EX is now a wonderful slave unit to the 580EXII.
I'm now shooting RAW instead of JPEG for the majority of my shots and the difference is noticable. Better able to tweek these RAW images in photoshop also.
If I'm sounding like a kid with a new toy - well - yes! This rig and upgraded accessoriues has breathed a little excitement into this digital photographer. The 3" LCD, Liveshot capabilities and IS 28-135 lens has given me a burst of creativity on the MACRO side not present with other lenses I have owned. A new light tent has renewed my interest in my wristwatch hobby with wonderful macro shots.
This camera body exceeds my present digital photo experience - but as I go thru the manual I'm learning so many useful items on focus range, manual exposure techniques, ISO, and speedlight boundaries the 300D never had. It will be about another month or so before I am "comfortable" again with my ability to better utilize this camera than my 300D mainstay.
This camera is not for everybody - the XT/XTi being a great pro-sumer body for the 'average' recreational photographer (jmho). As I get more serious - I can now concentrate on a series of 'L' lenses to continue my semi-pro hobby. New photographic worlds I could not imagine await me using this camera body. A camera that feels like it will last a lifetiime (until a better technology emerges anyway).