ID: B000WG1QRS-R2SN8LX8OCVO8A-A1OX8NW0DD1JR6
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Video-MP3-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A1OX8NW0DD1JR6
ReviewerName: Boss Hogg "Boss Hogg"
Date: December 26, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 13
Rating: 1.0
Title: Software SUCKS
Content:
I really wanted to give the Zune a chance. I have had various generations of the Ipod Nano for several years, and thought it would be fun to jump off of the bandwagon and see if I could get more for less by springing for the Zune...BIG MISTAKE.
The device was mediocre at best. when scrolling through a list, the circular touch-pad controls make it hard to select the item in the list that you want, because it is too sensitive and thus too easy to scroll all the way down to the end of the list, or right back up to the top of the list. when you do have the item on the list highlighted (and ready to be selected by pressing in the center of the circular touch-pad), due to the concavity of the touch-pad, it takes quite a bit of finesse, skill, and several attempts to simply press straight down on the touch pad to make your selection.
but all of the minor inconveniences aside, the biggest problem with this product is the software. 
I installed the required Zune music player software from their website. The first several times I tried using it and uploading music, it worked briefly, and then froze up my computer. However, I was able to upload a few songs onto it and so I just rolled with the punches. Several days later, my computer started acting funny. After reinstalling it, the same problems were occuring. Long story short (and more than $100 later in computer tech service fees for my malfunctioning computer, as well as erasing and reformatting my computer and losing all of my files) the computer techs, as well as my father (a federal computer programmer) concluded that the Zune software was responsible for messing up my computer, and i was highly advised to "NOT DOWNLOAD ANY MORE ZUNE SOFTWARE." obviously the underdogs still have some kinks to work out
Although this program malfunction might not be the norm. for everyone, it happened in this case (w/ a windows operating system), and I advise ANYONE considering an mp3 player to not put their computer at risk and to spring for the ipod instead (what, like $10 more?). Since i had to wait to reformat my computer since i needed it for school, i ran out of time and could not return the zune for my money back. now the zune collects dust on my shelf and i am $150 poorer of much needed money for a starving college student.