ID: B00008UI0R-R2273BI4J157B8-A2DZ9DH6920IGP
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A2DZ9DH6920IGP
ReviewerName: C. D. Jones
Date: December 29, 2007
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Cat hair be gone!
Content:
Background first:  I am handicapped and some features I needed to help me vacuum may not be important to other users AND I have four indoor-outdoor cats.  
Unit arrived intact and parts fit perfectly.  I put it together in about 10 minutes. All the parts seem sturdy.  Even in a world of products with flimsy plastic parts, the plastic brushhead and other replaceable head seemed a cut above. 
Because I cannot balance on one leg well at all, the fact I can press the tab to retract the cord with my hand is a plus as is not having to step on the vacuum head to change it from upright to vacuum mode.  On this Hoover, all I have to do is push the head on the floor a bit and it bends perfectly. Since I vacuum using a wheeled chair, these two features are very important to me.  The wand and the vacuum head stand up perfectly, too.
Having the controls on the top of the handle shaft near my hand is another plus for me as is the self-propelled vacuuming (I just love it) and the headlight.  
The dust cup may seem somewhat small at first as I must vacuuming up about two years' worth of ground in cat hair, but I suspect with regular use that will not be a problem, but it is very easy to pop the dust bin in and out of the canister, another good feature for me.  When it pops in it is secure.
It is so light weight and easy to move with the large rear wheels.  I cannot move large heavy items anymore, and this light weight and mobility is another plus. 
I like the quiet motor (my previous Oreck, Eureka uprights, and even Panasonic upright were noisy). AND I love the suction.  I vacuumed a 4x8 foot area of carpet where I go into my bedroom and my four cats use as a corridor to the outside four times now (this was two days after my housekeeper was here with her personal vacuum) and each time the cup has filled with cat hair, carpet fuzz, and dust.  The bin was easy to remove, empty, clean out (all from a chair).  I still will use my Dustbuster for the cat litter and the Shop Vac for the garage and shed, but for house I am very happy with this purchase.  
How the vacuum will hold up long-term I cannot tell, but I am hopeful.