ID: B00005LVWR-R2JHSX34KHIQGK-A3JMYIDU7T1NF8
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Saeco-SuperAutomatic-Espresso-Cappuccino-Machine
ReviewerID: A3JMYIDU7T1NF8
ReviewerName: Howard Hinman "hhinman"
Date: July 4, 2004
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: A Wonderful Step Up...
Content:
After buying coffee makers sometimes twice per year, and given that my recent marriage created a &quot;she likes her coffee very strong, and I like mine regular&quot; issue, I decided to invest the $600 in this machine. It is truly incredible (so far...). We've had it for about 4 months now. The striking features are the ease of use, quickness of making a custom cup of coffee (less than a minute), and it's heavy usage. We make 10-20 cups per day often. The coffee that comes out of this machine is truly unbeleivable. It has a slightly creamy taste, and I have never tasted coffee this good - even at a Starbucks. We have tried different types of beans (even Sam's Club's Kona beans are great..). The coffee is so good that some of my 19 year old's son's friends have taken up drinking coffee and come here often just for ours. The machine has had no problems (knock on wood...). It performs magnificently. The only down sides are the water reservoir which must be manually filled (probably holds enough for 4-6 cups depending on the size you choose). Also, you must remember to empty the grounds or you can get a mess and have to open it up and remove a large mechanism to clean it out. It does hold a lot of grounds in it's disposal basket, incidentally. The nice features about it are the fact that it can make one of two cups of coffee at the same time, and you can adjust both the amount of coffee (for the size of cup) and the strength of the coffee easily. We really don't use the steam/frothing mechanism so I can't comment on it. I would recommend this maker to anyone. There do seem to be a lot of mixed reviews on the internet related to the long term stability of this machine, but I have seen reviews posted by individuals who claim 20 cups of coffee a day for years out of this model. I suspect the real issue is taking care of it, not letting it run out of water often, and keeping the grounds cleaned out. But I will see over time. As I state, we've only had it for about 4 months, but so far it performs like a Sherman tank...