ID: B000KJQ1DG-R25ZRMTY2X4O0N-A3VX9Z3RQ011U7
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G-Zoom-Nikkor
ReviewerID: A3VX9Z3RQ011U7
ReviewerName: David Wixom
Date: April 29, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Camera! But there is a downside... (Update)
Content:
Let me start off by saying I absolutely LOVE this camera. Before I got it I'd never had anything but point and shoots. So this was a big step up, and I was a bit worried there would be some huge learning curve, but I was wrong. If you want, you can just leave the camera on auto and it will do everything for you, just like your point and shoot, but the pictures will come out a LOT better.
But this camera gives you plenty of room to grow, I've had mine for nearly a year now and I'm still learning things about it. The lens it comes with is also pretty awesome. It isn't a telephoto, so don't expect it to be, but it's a good all around lens.
Now for the downside, and it really isn't much of one. Most SLR's have the autofocus motor built into the body, the D40 doesn't however. What this means for you, is that most older lenses won't autofocus. So you ARE limited somewhat in terms of lenses. But new ones are coming out pretty quickly at this point, so it shouldn't bother you too much.
Now, for the stuff you're going to want to get along with the camera. You'll want to have some kind of bag, I personally prefer a backpack made for cameras, it gives me space for my camera body, my three lenses, my laptop, and then some. You'll also want a lens pen. You basically use it to clean your lens, it's cheap, just do a search for it and you'll find it. Of course as you use your camera more and more you'll want new lenses. I highly recommend the Nikon 50mm f/1.8D AF Nikkor Lens for Nikon Digital SLR Cameras, it doesn't autofocus, but it's a great portrait lens.
So overall, great camera, and I know you'll love it too!
(Update 5/27/2009)
So I've had the camera for a while now and would like to throw in a cautionary note. I still love the pictures this camera produces, but I've had two separate issues with the flash. First time the camera was sent in under warranty and repaired. Second time they wanted money, but wouldn't tell me how much until I sent it in. Decided not to do so since I have two SB-600's and don't really need the on board flash.