ID: B000CSIY26-RLXKI3470ZYD7-A1FGPC1COM0AR7
Category: AirConditioners
Product: Get-Organized-2961-1084-PORTABLE-CONDITIONER
ReviewerID: A1FGPC1COM0AR7
ReviewerName: F. Denry "Leonidas-5555"
Date: August 1, 2006
Helpful: 70 of 72
Rating: 4.0
Title: Happily surprised
Content:
I got this item at BJ's Wholesale for $279.  I bought it because of the dehumidifier function and the self evaporation process advertised.  At this price, despite high hopes, I was relatively skeptical on its efficiency and was ready to returned the unit if I was disappointed.  I never buy an appliance without checking Consumers Reports but the most recent article, published in June, covered only Windows AC units.  If you need to place the unit in its side during transportation to your house, it is advised to wait 24 hours before turning it on to allow the coolant to get back in place.  The unit is heavy and you might need help to move upstairs or downstairs.  Once on the level you like, the build-in wheels will make moving to the room you choose easy. The flexible hose is relatively frustrating to work with if the space you have is restraint.  My bedroom is small and I have a chest of drawers by the window I connected the exhaust system to.  It took some time adjusting but with transparent duct tape, it worked well and stayed in place.  On AC setting, the machine is adequate and the cooling is thorough.  However, what I am most impressed with is the dehumidifier function.  This option runs only on medium fan and, despite the heat wave we are experiencing right now in Massachusetts, I haven't had to switch to the AC option!  I was sure I would have to do so, eventually.  It was close to 100 today and the temperature in the bedroom was at 70.  Now, it is nightime, in the low 80's and very humid but the unit, still on dehumidifier function, is reading between 70 and 73. The unit can stop if it needs to be drained but has worked non stop for 5 days, 3 on AC and yesterday and today on dehumidier, so far, without problem.  I couldn't get any info but plan to contact the maker to know how much energy, if any, is saved in this function vs. A/C.  I am happy with this machine and, so far, don't regret the price I spend on it.  If my satisfaction with this product changes, I shall make an update.