ID: B000BP8AY2-R39IGCXR4HV5PF-A1QXPDCEU0ZUE
Category: MP3Players
Product: SanDisk-Sansa-m250-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A1QXPDCEU0ZUE
ReviewerName: J. Whittle
Date: February 1, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: pretty good, but no shuffle/random play?
Content:
This was delivered today, and I've already filled it up with 2G's of my music.  I bought this just to take to the gym, and I'm pleased with the size and weight.  It is also easy to use, and I don't think it will be a problem while on the treadmill.  I didn't even try the arm band and case that came with it because, well, it's cheap plastic (looks like a kid's toy).  I bought the gel case when I purchased the player, so I went ahead and put that on.  (And I'll be heading over to give that five stars of its own momentarily...)
I took it out of the packaging and plugged it in to my laptop, which is running Vista, and held my breath...  it recognized the device and installed the drivers with no problem.  Drag and drop songs is super easy, and all went smoothly.  
I tried using the ear buds that came with it, but without the foam covers they hurt my ears and with the covers they won't stay in my ears, so I'll be using different headphones.  Though I will say that these ear buds were pretty good quality sound if you can tolerate them.
My only complaints so far are that (1) there does not appear to be a random or shuffle function.  I see a repeat loop, but no shuffle.  That sucks, because I don't want to listen to things in the same order each time.  That's just silly!  Which leads me to (2) the EasyStart CD (which I'm assuming contains the full manual) will not run on Vista.  [Hey, I know I should be happy it recognizes the player at all...]  If I want to fully research the possibility of a random feature or figure out the playlist feature (the "Quick Start Guide" was a bit lacking in explaining that aspect), I'm going to have to explore the website, and I'm not in the mood for that headache right now.  I'm all for saving trees by including manuals on disc, but they should be in a .pdf format or something, and not some program file that can only run on XP.  
I'll revise my rating if the player decides to freeze up on me or crash like others have.  But so far, it's doing great.  Way cheaper than an iPod, and I love that it uses a single AAA battery, which is easy enough to keep on hand in my gym bag.  No more remembering to recharge batteries!!