ID: B000VX7VJO-R22IYJMIZ492U9-A152EIXE09UO4T
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Breville-BKC600XL-Gourmet-Single-Cup-Coffee
ReviewerID: A152EIXE09UO4T
ReviewerName: K. M. Dresher "momnumber2"
Date: February 9, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 6
Rating: 4.0
Title: Ugh, I am one of the pod people...
Content:
When the Keurig Co announced they were planning to make a home system for the K-cup, I was thinking that only a fool would get one.  They offered a limited amount of K-cups so you had to tie yourself to whatever brand had made the deal.  And at the time it was mostly Green Mountain.  (Which roast really good coffee.)
Anywho, years later my husband, who saw the Keurig at a clients home, came home all a twitter.  He knew it was time to let my faithful Bunn go.  I was heartbroken as I love that freaking coffee maker.  But, the years we unkind.  Well, I was, I did not follow the proper care for the thing.  I only remembered to de-lime the tank like once a year.  Whoops.  The last time I did it there was so much build up, that even after a million rinses, my brew funnel had little white specks of calcium sitting on the coffee grounds.  A sad day indeed...
So, off to our fav bedding and kitchen store ready to buy the Keurig.  And I only agreed cause my hubby said that we could send it back and replace it with a Bunn if I hated it.  They were sold out of the model we wanted and had this one.  And it was like a $100 more.  Crud.  But, we got it.  (The 20% off coupon helped)
Why we bought it:
    -comes with My Own K-cup (solving the whole _my_ coffee thing, and we did not have to buy it for an extra $15)
    -K-cup funnel stores in the top of the machine along with a scoop (NICE!)
    -water tank is removable for easy filling
    -looks _really_ nice with the little blue lights
    -20% off brought it down to the Keurig price plus the My K-cup
So, the bottom line.  I like it.  I am not as in love.  But, I might be someday.  It is growing on me.  The machine itself is way nicer than I expected.  It works beautifully.  Everyone on the house can use it.  My 10 year old can make me coffee...  BIG bonus.  I like using my own coffee but I have found a few I like in the K-cup...  Try out a few.  There are tons now.  And the tea is a really nice option.
Why I am not in love.  I can't seem to fill the K-cup with out dumping grounds on the counter.  And I can't justify grinding a cups worth of coffee each time.  I am a BIG fan of grinding to brew and having to grind a few days worth to make it worth it sucks.  The coffee is good but the habit is hard to break.
I hate being a pod person.  So perhaps my brain is preventing me from loving it.  Cause, it is a _really_ nice machine.  BUT, if you need a versatile machine for coffee and tea drinker, this is killer.  Everyone can be pleased.  And entertaining is far easier when you can make that one cup of decaf for that one guy...