ID: B00008UI0R-RQFJCLT69MT88-AXZGACO8PI2LO
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: AXZGACO8PI2LO
ReviewerName: Scott W. Larson
Date: October 19, 2007
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 4.0
Title: Powerful modern vacuum cleaner
Content:
We're approaching 400 reviews here so there isn't much more I can add. This replaced a Hoover upright vacuum that lasted 30 years (!) so I don't have any modern vacuums to compare this thing with.
The first surprise was turning it on and feeling the vacuum pull itself down into the carpet. I could hardly move it before I turned the brushes on. This is tremendously powerful suction. It cleaned the carpets nearly as well as my steam cleaner. I had been sandblasting during the summer and it found all the sand that the old vac had been missing. After vacuuming my wool carpet, the canister looked like I had vacuumed a sheep. Modern vacuums let you get very very low under furniture -- this can slide under a three inch gap. I had been moving furniture to vacuum before this.
I agree with one reviewer's complaint about the dusting attachments. The wide brush is not much good for dusting. You need a narrow circular brush. Fortunately all my inexpensive ShopVac attachments friction-fit and work perfectly so that was no problem for me. With these attachments I've been able to get everywhere and with the powerful suction you don't have to get too close to clean a surface.
I personally don't mind that the body doesn't have a place to store the attachments. Why carry them around when I'm not going to use them? I like that the body is light and can easily be carried. It doesn't need more dead weight.
Yes, the canister is very small, yet my house is large and was filthy and I only emptied it twice. If you had more carpet than me, I could see it filling up a lot more quickly. I like that it's transparent because it's great at finding those screws I keep dropping into the carpet.
I've found the controls are too convenient. I'm constantly hitting the suction or off buttons when maneuvering it around. Maybe I'll stop doing that.
It should surprise no one that this vacuum is much much quieter than my 30 year old upright. The noise does increase as the canister fills and the filter gets clogged but clean those and it's back to normal.
Although I've had no problems after a month of heavy use, I'm taking the complaints about the vacuum's durability seriously. Unlike my previous antiquated vacuum that would not die, this is a mostly plastic appliance and the long cables in the plastic hose as well as the connectors are certainly potential weak spots. I would not throw this thing around like a commercial appliance.