ID: B000GTR2F6-R25C2JUOZNT0UF-A2XCQ84BD3NFVD
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Platinum-Single-Cup-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: A2XCQ84BD3NFVD
ReviewerName: D. Cushman
Date: January 4, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 5
Rating: 3.0
Title: Pump is VERY loud....coffee quality is average at best.
Content:
I've now owned my B70 since 2006, so I feel I am well qualified to give an honest, objective opinion.  I paid $200 for it back then, but I notice the price is now reduced.
When I first bought a Keurig, I initially bought the B40 model, but I immediately contacted the manufacturer to ask why the internal pump was so loud and obnoxious.  I thought something was wrong with it but I learned from the manufacturer that all of the Keurig pumps are loud and obnoxious. I sent the unit back and spent additional money to upgrade to the B70 since it was advertised as having "Quiet Brew Technology". So this review is on the B70, but it applies to all Keurig machines because the issues in this review apply to every Keurig unit.  Turns out the "Quiet Brew Technology" does not apply to the pump.....it only reduces the sound of the coffee sputtering from the bottom of the K-Cup.  What is the point of reducing a small sputtering noise when the pump itself sounds like an industrial grade drilling machine being fired up?
The primary problem with the Keurig coffee makers is the pump vibrates so loudly that it literally sends vibrations through my kitchen counter, further amplifying the noise. Yes, the counter itself vibrates, thus adding to the volume.  Anyone that rises early in the morning knows that even the smallest sound seems loud, especially when others are sleeping and you're trying not to make any noise. So when this thing turns on at 5am, it seems 5 times louder than at 11am.  ALL the Keurig machines contain the same pump (Keurig informed me of this), and ALL of them make a loud, obnoxious buzzing vibration.  When I spoke with a Keurig representative, I was informed there are no plans to develop a quieter pump.
I went so far as to try several different types of padding under the unit to dampen the vibrational noise. After several tries, I finally used one of those squishy wrist rests, the type that contains a gel in it. I bought two of them ($15 each), cut them up into pieces that would fit under the Keurig, and then used an industrial double stick tape to apply them to the bottom of the machine. That solution only eliminated the transfer of vibration from the Keurig to the countertop, but of course made no impact on the noise of the pump itself.....sort of like reducing a car horn from 3 blares to only 1 blare, but still a loud car horn.
I then used several small foam pads with sticky backing (normally used on kitchen cabinets) and inserted them into various slots on the machine to prevent the unit from vibrating internally. That helped, but the pump itself is still very loud and it annoys me to no end in the morning. It often wakens my wife and my 3 year old daughter, so despite the fact I now have $230 invested into this machine, I often end up buying my coffee from a coffee house on my way to work, just to avoid waking my family with this loud, obnoxious machine.
I also find the coffee quality to be disappointing. As far as I am concerned, the people that rave about the quality and taste of the coffee simply don't know coffee. If you are a person that enjoys quality coffees from good coffee shops, you will find the flavor of the K-cups very disappointing, regardless of the brand. I consider it on the same level as 7-Eleven coffee or gas station coffee. If you like coffee from your local gas station or if you think McDonald's "McCafe" coffee is good, then you will probably like the quality of the K-Cups coffee. If you buy your coffee from good roasters, you will dislike the K-Cups.
HOWEVER! There is a plus side to all this:
I would rate this unit 5 stars for general purpose OFFICE use. In an office environment, the vibration of the unit will likely go unnoticed, and since most people are not coffee afficionados, they will likely think the coffee tastes fine. Furthermore, there is NO cleanup to this unit. Simply insert the K-Cup, push the button for immediate coffee, and then toss the K-Cup into the trash. No carafe to clean, no grounds to throw out, no wet filter sitting in the unit all night.
In summary, this unit is EXCELLENT for office use, but I would strongly advise against it for home use unless you don't mind the noise and you like industrial grade coffee.
CAVEAT:   Read Keurig's warranty carefully.  If this unit is used in a commercial setting as I have recommended, the warranty is void.  Yeah, seems they realize the quality of the machine is not quite what they purport it to be.  Further internet searches will yield many an unhappy customer review.
As I write this now, in January 2009, the unit's pump has completely ceased to even draw water from the reservoir.  Since it's out of warranty, I disassembled a portion of it myself but the problem is so deep within the bowels of the unit that it would be a weekend project to figure it out, with no guarantee that the problem is repairable without replacing parts.