ID: B00006WNN6-R1S8M0EXNNH9HH-A2GVHCMB7NXQXI
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-DFH132-SafeHeat-Fan-Heater
ReviewerID: A2GVHCMB7NXQXI
ReviewerName: Montana Mom
Date: December 18, 2007
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: No way to beat price and performance
Content:
I did a lot of research into what type of heater I would need before I finally purchased this one.  I looked into different types, different brands, different sizes, etc.  I found one bit of advice that was particularly helpful in my decision, and that was that the inexpensive space heaters can be just as effective as ones with a hefty price tags.  And after using this heater for about two weeks, I have to admit that must be pretty accurate.  I paid only $15, what with the special promotions and free shipping through Amazon.  I do not know how I could have found anything cheaper, and I'll be danged if it doesn't work like a champ.  
I got this specifically for our basement.  I am in disagreement with some reviewers that say this unit won't heat larger spaces.  We keep our main living level at around 65 degrees and when I open our basement door to walk down, I am immediately hit by a cozy pillow of warm air.  Sit down and put it at your feet, and you will be toasty, or downright hot, in seconds.  
It seems safe.  It's lightweight, but is very stable.  It's not going to fall over unless you knock it over, or don't position it properly.  Don't leave it on when you're not around.  I leave it on for trips upstairs and back down, but that's about it.  I have small kids and am probably overly concerned about safety.  Another plus in that same vein, is that it doesn't get hot to the touch, just warm.  I can put my hand on it  without any problems.
I cannot comment on longevity of operation since I've only had it a few weeks.  But let's face it, if it's $18 and takes a dive, it's not going to send me into a rage. I've probably gotten that much of my money's worth out of it even now.   
Certainly one of my smarter purchases this year, if I do say so myself.