ID: B0000YTYGM-R1Y5O6K4K31W7N-A3TD0MN9INMDNE
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DTC-975BKN-Programmable-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3TD0MN9INMDNE
ReviewerName: Henry Clifford
Date: June 17, 2004
Helpful: 28 of 29
Rating: 4.0
Title: I like it!
Content:
This is a very functional, convenient and attractive coffee maker. Its a bit pricey, and sadly, one of the few choices with an insulated 12-cup carafe. If possible, I'd give it another 1/2 star. Would benefit from sturdy materials, a more comfortable handle and faster pouring.The Base:While the hand-feel is typically light weight due to the plastic construction materials, the design is no-nonsense and intuitive. Its a bit on the tall side, maybe 20&quot;. The electronic controls (clock and timer) are intuitive. There is (obviously) no hot plate. The brew basket swings to the right, requiring an additional half a foot of space; and would benefit from incorporating an more obvious handle.  The red ball in the water level indicator is clearly visible from a front view, but to see the graduated rule you have to look from the left side. It's rather easy to rely on just the red ball to judge water level.The Carafe:Is a good insulator that rivals a good thermos. Coffee stays hot for at least 10 hours. Not peak freshness, but quite drinkable. Sometimes I really don't know if the coffee was brewed 4 ot 10 hours ago. The handle could have better ergonomics. The lid design yields an agonizingly low pour rate. I find myself uselessly tilting the carafe higher with the hope of filling the cup more quickly. If the low pour rate is the price of such terrific thermal performance, I'll gladly pay it. Also, the mouth of the carafee is maybe two inches in diameter, so cleaning will definitely require a brush.The Resulting Coffee:Is very acceptable, and due to the insulated carafe, stays that way all day or throughout the night. The Capresso (see below) was an 8-cup machine, and the larger capacity in this machine often means four of us can have coffee without having to brew a second, partially consumed pot that might end up being discarded.A Side Note:The Cuisinart DTC-975 is replacing a Capresso Elegant - an over-engineered product that from week 1 had a brew basket that would pop open during the brewing cycle and cause the coffee to run onto the counter and floor. Capresso's service dept. could not fix the machine in three separate attempts. An anomaly?