ID: B0007QKMR8-R1YGDEE85P592K-AQGOCOJAJIG3L
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-Camera
ReviewerID: AQGOCOJAJIG3L
ReviewerName: S. Everhart "skittish"
Date: September 28, 2007
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Exceptional
Content:
Great great grrreat camera!  Save your money on the Rebel XTi and purchase the XT, so you can invest in some nice lenses, filters, etc.  A nicer lens will get you a lot farther than a slightly larger LCD screen and 2 megapixels will.  Honestly, unless you are looking to blow up you pictures to a full poster size, there is no need for more MP as they don't determine the sharpness of your photos; they determine how large you can blow your prints up while not distorting them.  
As for the LCD screen, whether you have a 1.8 or a 2.5 inch, the screen is so small that every photo will look sharp until you put it on your faithful computer screen; when the real truth comes out.  So regardless of 1.8 or 2.5, you still need to zoom in on every photo on the screen to check for sharpness.
This camera does shoot in RAW as well which is always a nice plus.
The size of this camera has been a concern for some.  I have large hands, as I'm 6'4, and with the added battery pack grip, it fits my hands perfectly.  The battery pack is a huge plus anyway for those all day hikes/photo shoots when you don't want to keep changing the battery every few hours.  
The features/options on this camera are enough to keep every amateur photo enthusiast entertained for years to come, as well as those considering the entry to professional work.
As for the kit lens, I haven't used it or seen it in action, but if you are on a budget, the reviews I've read assure me that it will cover all of your needs until you are able to invest in a more expensive lens.  (The L series of glass being by far the best way to go when you are looking to make that serious jump).
I currently shoot with the Canon 28-135mm IS Standard Zoom lens, which is a great walk around lens in my opinion. I have written a review for that lens as well as the Sigma 10-20mm wide angle lens I recently purchased.  The Sigma lens is the first time I've strayed away from Canon Products, but I haven't regretted the purchase for a moment. 
As for this camera; great camera for a great price.