ID: B00097DFL0-R19HLIIDXZFSTE-A14JG02MK8GA0O
Category: AirConditioners
Product: WA-1230E-000-BTU-Portable-Conditioner-Control
ReviewerID: A14JG02MK8GA0O
ReviewerName: Thorion
Date: September 15, 2006
Helpful: 12 of 14
Rating: 1.0
Title: JUNK PRDOUCT - LOUSY SERVICE
Content:
I bought my Sunpentown in May of 2005. When it arrived the LED display was broken and the 12,000 BTU air conditioner was not capable of cooling my 150 square foot room.  I called Sunpentown and explained the situation.  They said that as long as the output temperature was 20% cooler than the input temperature the unit was considered to be functioning properly.  
Do the math.  If your room is 95 degrees, a 20% reduction means that the air coming out of the AC is still a sweltering 78 degrees!  A 12,000 BTU air conditioner should turn my tiny room into a meat locker, even on the hottest days. The Sunpentown struggled to make the room comfortable anytime the temperature exceeded 80 degrees.  Since the LCD was broken I decided to have them replace my unit hoping that I might get a better one.  The second unit worked as poorly as the first, but at least the LCD was visible.
As others have noted, drainage is a constant issue with these units. Mine would only run for 3-4 hours before drainage was required so I wound up putting it on a stand and running a hose from the discharge area to a 5 gallon bucket.  There is simply too much water produced for it to successfully blow out the exhaust hose.  It should be noted that my unit only had 1.5 feet of exhaust hose with no bends so it was an ideal installation.  If you have any bends in the hose it will only make matters worse.
In August 2006 the unit quit cooling the air.  The compressor would kick on, but no cooling occurred.  I called Sunpentown but since my unit was 3 months over the 1 year warranty they wouldn't do anything.  My only option was to ship the unit to their facility at my cost, have them diagnose and repair the unit at "flat rate" (but they wouldn't discuss specific prices) and ship it back to me at my expense.  
Not wanting to incur $175 in shipping charges PLUS the unspecified repair fees just to return my Sunpentown Portable Air Conditioner to its unacceptably poor level of functionality I sent my unit to a place it truly belongs - THE LANDFILL.
If a normal window unit won't work for you, save yourself a lot of money/time/aggravation and buy a giant industrial size fan.  Sunpentown builds lousy products and provides lousy service when those products fail.