ID: B00008UI0R-R28JNA6J0NEQRX-A1AY46BQW7M3N1
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A1AY46BQW7M3N1
ReviewerName: phsychic "phsychic"
Date: April 17, 2007
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: What a dream machine!!
Content:
I've been using the HOOVER WindTunnel Bagless Canister Cleaner with Powered Nozzle for a few weeks now and I have to say.....  This is THE nicest vacuum I've EVER owned.  Everything's easy to opperate since ALL the controls are right there on the handle (ie. off switch, power suction controll, and Carpet Brush on/off switch)!   Not to mention it's THE most user friendly and quiet of vacuum's I've owned.  In one press of a bottom you can go from easily vacuuming pet hair infested carpetting to vacuuming bare flooring in the SAME stroke!  What's even cooler (I had to test it's limits just to see) is the built in edge groomer!  I can vacuum up to 2inches from the wall or base board and it'll pick up all and any particals that aren't heavier than a marble (the closer the vacuum gets to the edge of the wall it'll deinfately pick up heavier objects than a marble)!!  The powered hand tool is just the neatest thing you could come across, it removes pethair from uphostery that my other vacuums couldn't (at least not without harming to the material first).  However; I for see a few set backs such as the bagless hepa canister needing to be capable of holding about 2x the current amount (which will come in handy if you have to vacuum more than 3 rooms at a time).  Another issue is the powered nozzel could use a stronger hold for keeping the handle upright when not in use. Not to mention, after prolonged use I've noticed the handle controls seem to faulter so you may need to replace or have the handle matenanced.  Other than that, I definately recommend this vacuum to anyone who wants an lowercost easy to use, compact most-in-one vacuum.  Especially if they have more than one type of surface to vacuum and have a few furry critters hanging around their home.  Although I love the two furballs at my house, up until now it has always a pain to clean their favorite areas on the rug or sofa.