ID: B000AQSMPO-R37PCQDX7F6X5F-AL0FBA5TU7IB6
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-B60-Special-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing
ReviewerID: AL0FBA5TU7IB6
ReviewerName: jybao
Date: December 5, 2009
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Wow Wow Wow
Content:
I just bought the Keurig B60 for myself & significant other.  After months of research (most of it done on Amazon.com & ConsumerReports), and contemplation between the Tassimo, B70 or a CuisinArt available to us in Canada, the B60 was everything I was hoping it would be.  I have not written a product review for Amazon, but I feel that I owe it to all the potential purchasers to tell them about this great product.  I purchased the B60 fully knowing all the possible 'issues' other reviewers have been upset about, and thankfully, I have not encountered any of them.  To name a few:
The Plastic Taste - Since I was aware of this potential problem, the first thing I did when I opened the Keurig box was remove the plastic water reservoir on the side of the machine, and washed it with hot water and a soapy soft sponge.  I rinsed it well and allowed it to air dry.  I also washed the inside of the lid.  The reservoir and lid did have a distinct 'plastic' smell straight out of the box, and I was expecting this since the unit is brand new.  But after washing and drying, the plastic odor disappeared.  I then poured a pitcher of water into the reservoir, allowed it to sit, and then poured myself a glass later on to test if there was any remaining plastic residue that I may not be able to detect by smell, but I would by taste - and the water tasted fine.  I ran a whole reservoir of water through the machine just to clear it, like it states to do in the instruction pamphlet.  The first cup of hot water tasted like water that had just been boiled and the last cup of hot water to run through the unit tasted like the first.  No plastic taste.  So this was not a problem for me.
The Leaking - When I filled my newly cleaned reservoir with filtered water, and snapped it into place on the side of the Keurig unit, I made sure that the bottom fit in its proper holder and that the teeth on the side pushed into the side slots of the machine.  I gently pushed down on the reservoir and horizontally against the unit to confirm that the reservoir was attached firmly in place.  I pressed the 'power' button above the display and then machine began to draw water from the reservoir into the main unit.  I stared at the back of the unit and the sides to catch a glimpse of possible water escaping like other reviewers have mentioned, but no leaking what-so-ever.  I continued to monitor the machine the next few brews, and it just does not leak.
The "Noise" - This was my main concern since I live in a condominium with neighbors to my left, right, below, above and across.  I remember a reviewer compared the Keurig's pump to a jet liner's roar.  This is a complete exaggeration.  Of course, there is noise; however, it is not even close to being described as 'loud' or even unbearable.  The Keurig must boil water within itself, so the rumble of the boiling water encased within the unit is expected, and that's what I hear.  It is a soft sound, not at all like the thunder that the reviewer was portraying.  I have noticed at the end of brewing a large (10oz) cup, the machine's spout does make a noise for the duration of about 3-5 seconds.  I would describe as hot air/steam being pushed out a narrow opening, which is what I would expect to occur.  I would presume that it does require quite a bit of pressure to push out the larger amount of hot air/steam that had risen to the top of the compartment during the 10oz brewing along with the remaining hot water through the K-Cup, so this does not bother me at all.  This sound is markedly less than what you would hear at a Starbucks or any other coffee shop.  I also own a Breville espresso maker, and the 'steaming' noise on that machine is much much louder and longer in duration  than the B60.  The Keurig B60 is quiet and I cannot imagine needing to place a mouse pad under the machine to damped the what-litte noise it produces in the first place.  
Dispensing - The coffee came out in a steady straight stream into my cup.  It did not spatter like my previous Hamilton Beach's shower head spout.  And the dispenser is placed far enough forward that my thicker mugs still fit comforatbly underneath and the coffee streams nicely into the centre of it.  I do not have to hold my cup up towards the spout.  It sits fittingly below on the drip pan.  The dispensing of the coffee itself took a matter of seconds, and there was no 'after-drippage' once the mug had been removed from the drip tray.
The Coffee, taste and temperature - I prefer my coffee a lighter roast whereas everyone else in my family has their preferences.  The Keurig is prefect for our different coffee tastes, and also our different work schedules.  Instead having to brew separate pots throughout the day for a cup or two of coffee and throwing away the rest of the cold pot down the drain, everyone can have their own hot coffee at their prefered time of day.  No more burnt coffee or microwaving cups of cold coffee.  I did not find the coffee to be weak or watery.  I give the K-Cups a few light shakes to loosen up the grounds and to increase the surface area for which the water has to extract the flavour.  The default temperature set for the machine was more than enough to give me a cup of hot coffee.  I did not have to pre-warm my cup or use a special double-walled mug.  I had to let my coffee cool slightly before tasting my first brewed cup.  And it was delicious.  I was very pleased with the aroma, flavour and temperature of the coffee.  There are extra-bold K-Cups and decaf options that came in the variety pack with the Keurig, my family have already found their favourites.  And although it does not completely eliminate our Starbucks habit, it does reduce it greatly.  This saves us a lot of time and money.
I turn off the unit with each use.  The programmable start works beautifully.  Whenever the display indicates that more water is required in the reservoir instead of topping up the reserve, I remove the reservoir & use the remaining water for the plants.  I re-fill the reservoir afterwards with fresh water.  It's easy, no mess, and that makes me very happy.  Clean up is a snap.  No soggy filters or clumping grounds.  I have purchased My K-Cup Reuseable Filter but have yet to use it, but I suspect that it would be easier to handle than the traditional paper filters.  I love that there is the option of using my own grounds.  I will purchase a coarser grind of coffee since the instruction manual for the Keurig states that finely ground coffee/espresso will potentially flow through the holes of the filter and into the machine and your coffee cup.  I have not had to contact Keurig's customer service, but I have read good things about their ability to help customers troubleshoot.
I am not a specialty coffee drinker, if I were, I would be leaning towards the Tassimo.  But I would definitely recommend to all of the coffee drinkers on the fence about purchasing a single-cup brewing system, the Keurig B60.  I was able to get this unit on sale ($139cdn) with the added bonus of an 18-pack of K-Cups of my choice to go with the 12 K-Cups already included with the box.  I am completely enthralled with this product, and I hope that all future buyers will share this same great experience.