ID: B000I1ZWRW-R3OSIVNBAHI7HD-A2JBPEH28ZJZYW
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-10-1MP-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A2JBPEH28ZJZYW
ReviewerName: bm97
Date: October 30, 2007
Helpful: 5 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent upgrade for the aspiring amateur photographer
Content:
I had a very nice Fuji S7000 for nearly three years and was looking to replace it with an SLR camera system. I considered the Nikon SLR system - as well as the higher end Canons. Eventually the XTi won because of Canon's better upgrade path for lenses and camera bodies. I decided against purchasing the higher end Canon SLRs for now - after all the prices on those are likely to drop significantly over the next few years, which should give me much-needed time to improve my photography skills! 
I'll just say that the photographs you get with this camera can be amazing! The 9-point autofocus system is exceptionally useful. The controls are very easy and intuitive. I like to shoot in manual mode and end up changing ISO, white balance and exposure bracketing settings all the time. (On that note, I highly recommend reading a book on photography principles such as exposure. Bryan Peterson's "Understanding exposure" is excellent and will motivate you to outdo yourself.)
The 2.5" LCD display is excellent for reviewing and keeps me from making major mistakes as long as I look at it once in a while when composing my shots. 
I also like how light the camera is - makes it easier to use for travel. Some reviewers with "large hands" have complained about how the camera feels. I believe that if you are accustomed to using any point and shoot digitals, you will love this camera's weight and balance. However if your previous SLR was a large film camera you will have to seriously consider how the camera feels in your hands.
As some reviewers have mentioned, any SLR camera will take some getting used to. It is inevitable that you will have situations where you thought you had that perfect shot but realized you forgot to change the ISO setting down from 1600 to 400 because your previous shot two hours ago was a fast stop-action. You can fix these problems by developing some type of start-up routine every time you switch on the camera. Just know that this is not the camera's fault - and don't blame the layout of the buttons.  
One word of caution before your purchase - if you are looking to photograph moving subjects indoors - like children, the low light performance could be a problem. This camera does not produce great shots at ISO 1600 or ISO 800 settings - so you will have to budget for a very fast lens like the 50mm/F1.4 or the 30/1.4(I am getting reasonable results with the 50mm/F1.8). Shooting with a lens that fast has its drawbacks - many of your photos will be out of focus if your kids are running around. (Whatever happens, please do not use flash to photograph kids in their element!) If the extra $2k for the EOS 5D is not a big deal, you should consider that camera - after all your kids grow up only once!