ID: B000EPHP4U-R3SWNOEFEJLIQ6-A2X2MG16VR8J1F
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Black-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A2X2MG16VR8J1F
ReviewerName: A. Bush "mechanical engineer"
Date: September 3, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Amazing MP3 player.
Content:
I've never been an Apple fan, my apprecation for their products going only as far as the styling.  But when I got my first iPod to replace a horrific dollar-store MP3 player, I became an instant fan of this line of products (as well as iTunes).
Sure, the 4GB Nano doesn't hold a TON of music, but seriously, 800 songs is plenty for me.  And not all of my files are compressed to AAC.  The metal case does invoke scratching, but keep it safe in your pocket and it should fare pretty well.  I love the anodized aluminum much better than any plastic case.
The Nano's biggest benefit (as its name implies) is its small size.  I was surprised at how small and thin it was; even pictures don't do it justice.  Yet, it is still large enough to be comfortably held and the screen is still readable.  
I especially like the Nano's on-the-go features such as playlist creation, song rating (if I get a bunch of new music and choose to listen to it while working, I can rate it for future reference), and album art viewer.  I also like the common iPod feature of logging song plays which then compile with my iTunes total plays when I sync.
The battery on this iPod is really good.  I was on an airplane and discovered that my iPod's battery lasts over 4 times as long as the one in my laptop, which is great for listening to music not only all day, but if you don't have time to charge it up before the next use.
Overall, I'm very impressed with this tiny player, its stylish design, easy interface, and genious click wheel.  My only complaints are that, of course, more HD space is better, the standard headphones are cheap trash, and sometimes holding the play button won't turn it off until you flick the "Hold" switch back and forth several times.  Otherwise, it's a great device and makes my college life a lot more enjoyable.