ID: B000JO7RVC-RUSW4RBTL59WC-ABGN9HI4R5122
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-classic-Silver-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: ABGN9HI4R5122
ReviewerName: vBlackEarth
Date: July 29, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 1.0
Title: $150 for this???? You've got to be kidding. Get a Zune!!
Content:
I bought this last year believing the hype. People are always talking about how great the iPod is, so I figured why not try get one so i can have tunes in my car.
This thing was nothing but trouble after i bought it. 
My first complaint is iTunes which I know I'm not alone when I say iTunes is a huge resource hog and will bog down your computer, so don't plan on doing anything else besides using iTunes when you run it(My operating system is Windows XP Pro SP2 with almost 2GB ram). After about 30 minutes I finally figured out how to add music already on my PC.  Apple sure didn't want it to be easy did they.  I'm guessing they did it this way because if you can't figure it out they assume you'll buy it from iTunes.  I could go on and on about iTunes, but I have more complaints.  
Has anyone had as much trouble as I did with the touch scroll feature?  At first I thought this was a really cool feature, and I liked it.  After about a week though, the problems ensued.  Why does the scroll have to be so sensitive?  If I move my thumb just the slightest milimeter on the music track I want to listen to, it goes to the song after or before(depending on whichever way I accidentally moved my thumb).  Might I say how much I really hated this feature in my car because I always ended up having to use the arrow key buttons to get to the right song. I think I have arthritis in my thumb from all the scrolling.  OK moving on.
The hold button on the top of the iPod-BAD IDEA.  At first I had no problems with the hold button, but after a few weeks the button would be set in the off position and still the iPod would stay on hold.  I ended up looking on Google to find a fix for this, but nothing I tried worked for me.  Why couldn't they have made the hold feature like a phone where you push a combination of keys for it to work?(ex. press * then OK)  I have a 30gb Zune and the hold button was designed with an actual clicking mechanism on the top, trust me when i say its 100x better than the iPod's.  People have said on many forums once they were able to stop the hold button from staying on they actually removed the hold button...(no comment)
All in all the iPod is far from perfect, but the only thing I will give it credit for is its battery life  Then again I've only owned it a little over 7 months so knock on wood.  I'd highly recommend the 30GB Zune over the iPod because it has an FM tuner, wireless, a bigger screen, plus the interface is a lot easier to use.  Did I mention the Zune is a lot cheaper?  Sorry to sound so biased towards the Zune, but I've had both and I know where my bread is buttered.