ID: B000MLG9K2-R38K9JAD8W1BFK-A2Z8WNTXFB228H
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-55mm-Zoom-Nikkor
ReviewerID: A2Z8WNTXFB228H
ReviewerName: Sinister Minister
Date: September 26, 2006
Helpful: 68 of 81
Rating: 5.0
Title: Nikon Just became the top dog!
Content:
Hey there friends SiNMiN here with just a short word about this fantastic camera. I have been shooting cameras one way or another now for a living for nearly 15 years. I remember the days when we all dreamed of digital cameras and once we had them we dreamed of days like these! First let me say that I come from the uniqe perspective of having shot and worked on nearly every barnd and type of camera available at one time or another! So I have no Brand loyalty to speak of! I'm loyal to my pictures not cameras.At the time of writing this my D80 is on the way to me, I am making these remarks based on some tests I ran using a D80 and my D200.
I have to say right off that the D200 is just about the closest thing to the perfect digital SLR I have ever found, that is until I got hold of the D80, now there are 2!Sensor wise both cameras are identical as is shot to shot and start up time. The D200 is faster (5FPS) and has a bit more image control by way of the ability to change sharpness levels, contrast, and saturation. On this note the D80 simplfies the process with giving you the ability to photoshop your images within the camera. ( I really liked that!) You can bring out detail in shadows, add filter effects, the list goes on and on. But the important thing is the ability to change all the other aspects like in the D200 are there as well, making this one hell of a versitile camera. ISO performance is on par with Cannons 20 or 30D (Sorry Cannon)and quite frankly shuts the XT down all together. ( I used to use both these cameras so take my word for it!)I don't know about the XTi. ISO noise is controlled by Nikon in a different manner than Cannon, and wich method you will like better will depend on you. I feel that Nikon images clean up easier with better results, and thier software is better. Both cameras are built extremely well, The D80 is built to last as long as you can when treated right, the D200 however lets you hammer nails all day and take pictures till dawn. At 1/500 flash sync is slower on the D80 but unless you know what that is don't worry about it, even then its no big deal. The other downside...SD cards...but I love the camera so I'll just have to get over it. And, the battery life is much better than the D200, (Speed needs juice folks)Low light photos are better with the D200, mainly because of a little better setting control, shot to shot both cameras perform about the same. The LCD and view finder are the same as the D200 and are both clear and bright as well as a joy to work with. The control layout is placed perfectly so much so that once you learn your way around you will find yourself changing things without looking!I love Sigma lenses and both Nikons work like a charm with all my glass, in fact the response on both was so good I was able to shoot hand held with a Sigma 50-500mm at ISO 400 in the late afternoon. And both cameras nailed each picture tack sharp! Cannons do not work well with any lenses other than Cannons.. Trust me!! I will write more in depth once my camera arrives. Then I can really get into it and see what makes it tick. But let me leave you with this thought...In my opinion Olympus, Pentax, Samsung, Pannasonic, Sony, and now Cannon are all in what I call the gimmick camera business ( another Sony Invention) Relying on gimmicks rather than improving the basic function of the product. They all are guilty save Nikon who has maintained it level of performance and even improved upon it. In ALL respected circles the D200 is considered to be the finest camera available under $2000...it is. The D80 is the finest camera for $1000 and under. Like I said I have no brand loyalty, if Cannon or even Maytag could deliver a camera that could beat this I'd switch in a heartbeat, but I can tell you folks they have a long, long, way to go. Nikon just took it out a whole new door! I'll let you know when I have more. Thanks for your time and as always happy shooting!!
SiNMiN