ID: B000I0YWQK-R1K3QJ9VPVBAWM-A31D7NUI10TCYQ
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Holmes-HCH6150-UM-Triple-Ceramic-Tower
ReviewerID: A31D7NUI10TCYQ
ReviewerName: karmaghost
Date: March 29, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 3.0
Title: Works decently, has a few issues
Content:
I purchased this heater a couple of years ago and have used it off and on since then.  It will do a decent job at heating a small area, but there are a few issues I have with it.
First the positives; as I said, the unit does a good job of heating a small or medium room, provided it is mostly enclosed.  For example, a bedroom or office will get nice and warm, but if you're trying to heat a larger room or a room that has no doors and is open to other areas, you will not get a significant increase in room temperature.
The remote was nice -- I have since lost mine -- and allows you to control the unit from, say, the comfort of your bed.  You will need to get up and walk over to the heater itself in order to use some functions, but it's a nice thing to have.
This heater has a timer function that allows you to essentially start a count-down 'til when you want the heater to turn on.  This is pretty useful for having it heat your bedroom an hour or so before you get up, instead of having the unit running all night or having the room be freezing.
Now the negatives; first and foremost, I'll mention my issue with the heater's built-in thermostat/thermometer.  On the heater's display, you can view what the unit believes is the room's current temperature.  This is most useful when putting the heater in "Auto" mode, where you can set a certain temperature for the room and the heater will turn off and on based on your particular comfort level.  However, the problem with the design of the heater's thermostat is that, I believe, it is located too close to the unit's heating elements and is also probably too enclosed within the casing.  I say this because when you first plug the heater in, it will give you an accurate room temperature reading.  I have verified this using an indoor/outdoor weather thermometer, as well as my apartment's existing room thermostats.  As the heater is operating and warms up, however, the difference between the room's actual temperature and the heater's measure of the room's temp increases.  This is an issue because the heater will often turn off prematurely; for e.g. it may think the room's temperature is 70 degrees when it is actually as low as 65.  This can make setting the heater's auto temperature shut-off a bit of hit-or-miss guesswork, a skill I have yet to acquire even after two winters with the device.
The timer option I mentioned earlier is a nice feature, but it only allows you to set full, whole hours.  It would be nice if you could set it to be more specific, like .5 hrs. increments, since the whole point of the timer is to essentially save money.  Also, the timer only works to count-down to then the unit will turn on.  It will not "count-up" to when you'd like it to shut off.  So if you forget to turn it off and leave the house, it'll run the entire time.
Another issue that may just be my personal perception is that the oscillating option is a bit useless.  Unless you have a bunch of people crowded around the heater, the unit's fans aren't strong enough where turning on oscillation would increase the unit's efficiency.
One more point that is really just a nit-picking thing; the display on the heater is a very bright green which may be an issue for you if you have the timer set at night and are trying to sleep.  Again, I realize that's a bit of a trivial issue, but I know it was a bit annoying for me and may be for others.
Overall, this unit was, as I said, decent.  I wouldn't spend more than 45 $ or so for this and if you check Consumer Reports, they always have a list of the year's most efficient stand-alone heaters.  I know for a fact this Holmes Tower isn't on there.