ID: B00006HYWR-R2LP33BWWH71K2-A1DTOM7KKMEZ3X
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Labs-NOMAD-MuVo-Player
ReviewerID: A1DTOM7KKMEZ3X
ReviewerName: Brandon Forsythe "B_Man_Dude_Guy"
Date: April 27, 2004
Helpful: 10 of 14
Rating: 5.0
Title: Please read this review, it IS helpful
Content:
Well, first of all if I could rate this 4 1/2 stars I would, mainly cuz its not perfect.  I ogt this for a Christmas present a few years ago and its worked great.  For of all, I would curse all of you people who gave this less than 4 stars but I'm going tyo qoute what my mother once told me, "Saying negative things never helps, it just makes the envirment more negative, and hardly ever fixes anything." So, that being said I'm not going to be nasty because what some of you did I might have done as well if my brother hadn't told me what was wrong.  My only real problem was I woke up one morning and it just, didn't work so I moped a while thinkling it was broken until I asked my brother if he knew how to fix it.  Appernetly there is a System.dat file in the mp3 player that if you delete (or don't delete, I'm not sure which) it will cause your mp3 player not to turn on.  So I went and did what mny brother told me (which was to delete the Sytem.dat file) and HALLELUJAH it worked again.  So if it won't turn on and you think its broken, look at the maual, do a web search and if all of that doesn't help, try what I did, (especially if you think itrs broken and were going to return it anyway).  SO for all of you out there who returned thers all you can do is think, " (...)WHY DIDN'T I TRY THAT?"  So, here are the pros and cons:Pros:LightwieghtStores bout 36 songs( which is nice for such a small player)SmallCheapDurableCons:Bad earphonesHave to hold the on/off button for 3 sec. to turn on or offAnd without my brother I would be  Mp3 playerless and sad to know it wasn't really broken if I had returned it.Overall:My first Mp3 player and a nice one.  Reliable and nice for going to the gym jogging, or mowing the lawn (which is when I use it the most). (...) 1/2 (THATS FOUR AND A HALF STARS) oNCE AGAIN FROM  UPYOURARSE.