ID: B000VDQ38E-R14OHKQWSTA3A8-A2RC5RQ6M7CCFK
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A2RC5RQ6M7CCFK
ReviewerName: Charity Spencer
Date: January 11, 2009
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Finally, A vacuum that works, at a price I can afford.
Content:
After extensive research and reading reviews, I finally made the decision to purchase this Bissell Pet Hair Eraser, Model # 3920.  I have only owned this product for little more than one week and so far I'm impressed.  My friend owns a Dyson, and I'm willing to bet this bugger would give him a run for his money!  The overall value is what impresses me. To get a vacuum with this many options and cleaning power, I was certain I would have to spend $200 or more.
It has a sleek appealing design(if you care about such things), adorable little paw prints adorn the cyclonic tank.  An extremely long cord 35'! I can clean multiple rooms without unplugging and moving. Everything is so easily accessible for easy cleaning and removal. From the turbo brush accessory to removing the rotating beater bar to remove tangled up hair and string (you know what I'm talking about).  No tools required to remove the beater bar!!!
Let me talk about the turbo brush - I was MORE than skeptical. My previous vacuum, which brand shall remain nameless, had one of those.  I found that the brush rotates using the vacuum's suction.  So on the ex's vacuum, as soon as I would touch the little turbo brush to a surface, it would lose suction and the brushes ceased to rotate.  If that sounds like your vacuum - then THIS vacuum is for you.  I couldn't believe my eyes. Not only does this little turbo brush hand tool have AWESOME rubber teeth lining the mouth of it (excellent for grabbing dust and yes, pet hair from crevasses) I used a little elbow grease and those brushes were still just a turning.  I have not used the contour tool yet, but have read other reviews saying that too works by design.
I have got to mention the drop down hair and lint bar.  It's our beloved old fashioned lint brush on the front - ingenious!  So, you push that little bar down in place - when you pull back it grabs hair and lint, push forward it slides off onto the floor and you vacuum it up.... there's so much more.
The pre-motor filter is washable - as are most these days. The tank is really easy to release and empty.  The entire cyclonic tank comes apart so that you can rinse/wash, dry and put back together for your next use.  In my mind, giving me more control over how long my vacuum will last me, and how clean the air is I put back into my room.  Speaking of which, it has a post motor HEPA filter on the side. HEPA filters work!!! I have sucked up so much sand, dust, dirt, cat hair - you name it - since I got this vacuum (my other vacuum really didn't do the job and I felt dirty the first time I emptied this thing). Not ONCE do I turn on the vacuum and have a poof of dust fly into the air.  You must replace them every 3 months at minimum for optimum performance.  I'm an allergy sufferer w/ asthma, so I will replace them more often.
There is only one feature that would make this vacuum better - a switch to turn off the beater bar when using the hand tools. It in NO way affects its operation, and when in the upright locked position, the beater bar is far enough off the ground it doesn't bother. It would still be nice to have this option to save wear and tear on the belts.
Bottom line - this vacuum has exceeded my expectations considering other vacuums in the same price range.  With proper maintenance, I feel this vacuum is going to be good over the long haul. It feels sturdy, a solid constructed unit.
Does it work on pet hair  --- YES, YES, YES!!! (and so much more)