ID: B0001A99LK-R2RRVUSOFX42N4-A3ADHKHY3K5P3G
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-mini-M9435LL-MODEL
ReviewerID: A3ADHKHY3K5P3G
ReviewerName: anonymous
Date: December 12, 2004
Helpful: 15 of 25
Rating: 3.0
Title: My excitement about this product wore off quick
Content:
After very frustrating issues with several Sony products recently, I decided that everything Sony makes is crap. That included my MP3 player, which until then I had been reasonably happy with. But I was mad and decided I was done with Sony, so I started doing some research on the iPod mini. After reading some of the reviews and was extremely excited to go pick one up. Unfortunately once the initial fascination wore off, I had to admit I was pretty disappointed.
The only place I use MP3 players is at the gym. I can see that this product would be much better for someone who used it for more every day activities, but it just wasn't right for me.
1) I really have no need to keep 1000 songs loaded at once. It takes way too long to scroll through all of the albums and find something I'm in the mood to listen to...then once that is over I get to do the search all over again. Plus you can't really do this without putting everything down and looking at the iPod. Not very convenient for me on exercise equipment. I know that I can create playlists, but that's still more work than I'm used to on an MP3 player. I prefer the smaller capacity...just load 8-10 CDs that I like that month and swap them out when I'm ready for something new.
2) The battery life is totally unacceptable to me. I use my Sony at the gym 3-4 times a week, and I think I charge the battery once a month or less. After taking the iPod to the gym just twice, it was already down by half.
3) Everyone really seems to love the scroll wheel, but to be honest it annoyed me. When I'm doing cardio at the gym I'm rarely standing very still...and trying to adjust the volume via the scroll wheel while I'm exercising is a pain, it's just too sensitive. I'd much rather just have a button to push.
4) I was not impressed with the sound quality at all. I'm sure if I wanted to invest even more money in it and buy better headphones it would improve, but $250 is already quite a bit. I hate the equilizer settings...there's hardly any bass (when I pick the 'bass-enhancer' it just sounds distorted). I want to be able to set the bass & treble where I want them...none of the presets cut it for me.
5) The additional features on the iPod were of no use to me at all. I don't need games, a calendar, or phonebook at the gym. Like I said, this product would be better suited to someone who uses it for more applications. I have an excellent Palm pilot to keep info like that on, so I'm not going to spend the time duplicating it on the iPod. Plus I didn't see any options in iTunes to enter this kind of stuff...so I assume you have to do it all on the iPod itself. No thanks.
I returned my mini to the Apple Store after using it at the gym just twice. There were a few features that I liked, but that did not make it worth the money to me. Much as I hate to admit it, my Sony player is a lot better than I realized.