ID: B000I1YWLY-RC0ZLY4E0JOOA-A61BGTGDM625H
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL-Bagless-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A61BGTGDM625H
ReviewerName: Bob Phillips "Bob"
Date: November 5, 2006
Helpful: 22 of 22
Rating: 5.0
Title: Pretty Impressive
Content:
I honestly dread trying to sort out household appliances like this.  I purchased this, however, after my typical review through Consumer Reports, searching the net, etc.  The most important part of it, however, was actually getting my hands on one and trying it in the store.  It is definitely one of the more expensive vacuum cleaners one might find.  But my wife wanted a canister and we wanted something light and easy to get around.  And that's where I was sold on this thing.  It is ergonomically very friendly.  It is compact, pretty light, and it just feels solid.  I wanted that didn't require us to bend down to change the settings and this thing seems to have all of that. The handle length is very easily adjustable, the buttons allow a quick switch from having the brush in the motorized head go from on to off and to adjust the height of the head, the buttons to push with your feet are solid and not thin and skimpy.  As far as how well the thing vacuums - it seems to do an excellent job.  We have lots of bare floor, persian carpet, and wall to wall.  And it does an excellent job with all of them. The accessories are standard. There's nowhere to store the accessories on the canister that I can see.
The bagless system they have here seems very easy to work with.  We haven't had the thing long enough to know if it's a good thing or a bad one. 
I feel I paid a lot of money for it, though, and I hope it lasts.  It has a two year warranty and Dyson's uprights have a five year warranty.  I purchased an Electrolux upright in 1990 and have changed the belt twice myself for about twenty bucks and the thing is still going.  So, I've been happy with them as a company.  I think some of the Kenmores might be an interesting comparison product.  I just thought this thing was more solid for a few more bucks.