ID: B0002U346A-R1OBBFKFU2SREU-A1N4NVIPTKVPCM
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bosch-Compact-Health-Canister-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1N4NVIPTKVPCM
ReviewerName: Princess Lamont
Date: February 6, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Needs a beater brush.
Content:
My mom actually gave me this vacuum a few years ago, and she herself had it for several years.  So it is durable and long-lasting, I'm sure it has many miles left in it.  No parts have ever broken, and I'm not a gentle person and have definitely bumped and smacked it against a lot of furniture, walls, and corners.  
The suction is acceptable - however there is no beater bar. There is no beater brush to pick up hairs from the carpet - I guess it's just sucking up lots of dust and debris, but hair is always left behind, and it's difficult to see unless you get right down on the carpet.  In common areas, it's not an issue, but in the bedroom... I never knew my husband could shed so much. His hair is all over the floor, and while there is a brush strip on the front edge of the vaccuum, this fills with hair and lint so quickly, it's useless in two minutes. Unless, of course, you pick out the hair and lint by hand. And then you can vacuum for another two minutes.  
The bare floor performance is excellent on the wood and tile (in my mother's house) and the linoleum (in my apartment) and while it does keep my wall-to-wall carpet cheerio, goldfish cracker, and cookie crumb-free, the hair issue is really bothering us.  If you have long hair that piles into dustbunnies in the corners of your room, this vacuum will flatten out the dustbunnies until they are nearly invisible as an extra layer of carpet.
This vacuum's saving grace is that it is very QUIET. VERY. QUIET. If you want to vacuum while people are sleeping - this is the vacuum for you.  If you are a fairly neat person with only everyday adult wear and tear to deal with - this is the vacuum for you.  It's tiny and the bags are easy to find online.  They even come with a sticker so that you can cover up the hole when you are throwing the bag away.  It's not a bad vacuum at all, I just wish it came with a beater brush attachment. It's perfect for me in every other way.