ID: B0000X7CMQ-R1M43OOZ6PTTOM-A1YT5QQFDYLAN6
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Zojirushi-EC-BD15-Thermal-Carafe-Coffee
ReviewerID: A1YT5QQFDYLAN6
ReviewerName: Bev_from_RI "bev_from_ri"
Date: March 25, 2004
Helpful: 367 of 381
Rating: 5.0
Title: Another quality Zoji product - just what I was looking for!
Content:
I was looking for a coffee maker with a large capacity, unbreakable carafe, auto-shut-off, pause-and-serve, and a programmable timer. I found everything I wanted with this Zoji. It has a stylish, brushed stainless carafe that stays cool to the touch and has no breakable glass liner like some carafes have.  The base has an easy to read water-level display, with markings up to 10 cups, but it has a larger capacity than my old 10 cup Braun. It also has a cute little elephant on it!The 1.5 liters works out to approx. 51 ounces, or just over 6 (8-ounce) cups. My old "10 cup" coffee maker held about 5 8-ounce cups. I never have quite figured out what counts as a "cup" in coffee terms, but it seems to vary between 4 and 6 ounces. This is a pretty tall (15 inches) coffee maker, and you have to lift the lid to add the coffee and the water. Since steam comes out of the top, I pull it out from under the cabinet when it's running. If you have shallow counters, this could be a little tricky.The only down side, in my opinion, is that it uses the hard-to-find #3 filters. I've gotten around it by cutting about 1 inch off the top of my #4s. I also had a little trouble getting the lid off the carafe when I screwed it on too tight - I had to put a towel over it to get a good grip. Those minor details aren't enough to cost it a star, though.I'm not sure how long coffee stays hot in this carafe, because we drink so much coffee around here it doesn't stay in there very long. I did sleep in one morning, though, and the coffee that was automatically made at 6:15 was still hot at 7:30.Overall, I am extremely happy with this coffee maker. I have hot coffee ready for me whenever I get up in the morning, and I never have to wonder whether I forgot to shut it off when I leave the house.