ID: B0002XQJFA-R2TIT2IF6TFOSK-A3BU062S80JTWD
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Camera-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A3BU062S80JTWD
ReviewerName: Roger Sohn "http://www.rogersohn.com"
Date: May 6, 2005
Helpful: 22 of 25
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best Digital Camera You'll Buy - Worth It All The Way
Content:
I used a Canon G2 4.0 megapixel camera and this Canon EOS 20D is definitely all that AND a bag of chips.  Don't let the price tag scare you.  It's really well worth the price and looking back at it, this 20D camera is THE BEST purchase that I've made in a long time.  I'm not even kidding.  That's why this camera has so many great reviews from all sorts of people.  It absolutely takes great stunning pictures, fast autofocus, fast 5 frames per second, sharp focusing, availability and scalability with the entire vast line of Canon EF and EFS (the newer) lenses.  You just can't go wrong.  This is hands down the best semi-pro consumer model out there.  And trust me, I'm not even a pro and when I take pictures of just people at BBQ's or taking fast shots of my friends playing basketball, it's just amazing.  My friends can't believe the high quality and clarity of the photos.  Taking a photo of my friend dunking the basketball and freezing the picture while he is in mid-air - Now THAT'S amazing!  The modes on the camera are easy enough for a point and shoot person to take great pictures but at the same time, offer so many complex options/customizations for the professional photographer that makes this camera a true winner.  I totally did my research when I bought this camera and I'm glad I picked it up.  I promise you that you'll love the camera too.  It's a great investment and it won't be money thrown away later.  Later on if technology gets better and Canon releases a better camera, then you can re-use all of your existing lenses and all you need to pick up is another body.  I love it!  Love the switch to Digital SLR.  Can't imagine how I survived without this wonderful camera!
With the 17-85mm lens, it's a deal to get it with this bundle.  This lens is the best all around lens.  It does everything that the basic standard $50 18-55mm lens does and more.  Very good lens to have as a "leave it on the camera and be the 1 lens you choose to have to take it around to travel or carry around with you to take pictures".  The one lens that's multi-purpose and good for all around shooting.  Can't go wrong!  You'll love it!  It has the ultra sonic motor that's super quiet, has auto-focus capability for fast auto-focus, and has a good large wide angle for wide shots as well as a healthy zoom for close up pictures.  It's made in Japan for high quality, and like a lot of other things in life, there's a reason why it's expensive and there's a reason why you get what you pay for.