ID: B000EP4TWQ-R2WWLK2TJ1IL9-A3ML5ARTHND34L
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Silver-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A3ML5ARTHND34L
ReviewerName: TheBookOfHonor
Date: March 14, 2006
Helpful: 14 of 14
Rating: 3.0
Title: Great Product, But....
Content:
Someone bought a Nano for me for Christmas.  iPods are a great product.  We all love listening to music whenever and wherever we can.  All iPods have a simple design, are easy to use/navigate, easy to install, and all have great features.
Granted, let's be honest, iPods are rather expensive memory devices, and we're really paying for the marketing costs.
But that isn't the reason for the 3 stars instead of 5.
There are 2 reasons for the removal of 2 stars, and the issues are actually related.
The overall single issue is power.
The first "sub-issue" is the lack of a power charger with your purchase.  This is absurd.  Would you buy a toaster if the salesperson told you the power cord was an extra $30?  Of course not, but this situation is by design (it's called getting an extra $30 from the customer, this extra $30 is a/k/a "gravy" inside corporate America -- I should know, I work in corporate America).
If the lack of a general power source isn't insulting enough, consider the actual power you do get with the Nano.
The marketing materials say "the Nano's battery life, when fully charged, will last UP TO 14 hours."
"Up to" provides a lot of lateral space and is rather vague when you consider there are a possible 14 hours for the battery to ACTUALLY last.
But, anyway, when you see the phrase "up to 14 hours," and someone told you it didn't actually last for 14 hours, what would be your first guess as to the actuall staying power of the battery?
12 hours?  Maybe 10 hours?  At least 7 hours (hey, that's minus 50% already!).
Answer: at best, you'll get 5 hours, and that's the exception.  The rule is probably 3-4 hours.
They don't give you a power cord and give you a battery that needs constant and repeated re-charging that's hooked to a computer?!?!?!?!  If they aren't going to give you a power cord, at the very least give me a battery that lasts as long as you say it will.  But to insult me TWICE by just taking the product out of the box???
If other iPods didn't have these 2 issues, I'd rather get one of those instead of the Nano.  Don't be tricked into the marketing gimmetry of always having to have the smallest and latest gizmo (unless you have a need for that kind of Hollywood glamour).