ID: B0007QKMQY-R3MS2XS6V5Q6SO-A1GBBD2S1K5Y70
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-f3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A1GBBD2S1K5Y70
ReviewerName: A. Nienhuis
Date: June 5, 2006
Helpful: 34 of 93
Rating: 1.0
Title: How a simple sensor cleaning ended up in a nightmare.
Content:
About four months ago I purchased the Canon Digital Rebel XT 8MP Digital SLR Camera. Additionally I bought two professional zoom lenses. The basic EF-S 18-55mm that came with the camera was not sufficient for me to fully utilize the camera. After the first time use I noticed a stain on the pictures. Changing different lenses can cause dust in the sensor area. The instructions for use suggested the sensor cleaning procedure.  So I did but the stain did not go away. Furthermore the stain did not seem to be dust but an oil stain of some sort. I contacted the Canon service department and they told me that sensor cleaning warranty was only within the first six months after the date of purchase. I decided not to mail the camera but bring the camera myself to a Canon service centre. At the Canon service centre I learned how to clean the sensor myself but I also learned that my little stain was a serious problem. Somehow during the manufacturing process an oil stain accumulated between the filter and the sensor. Thus the camera had to stay at the Canon service centre and would be mailed to me after it was repaired. The Canon service centre promised to prioritize the repair. After one week I received a box in the mail and I was surprised that expensive and sensitive SLR cameras were shipped in tinny single layer boxes. My surprise was even bigger when I discovered that my camera was not even in the box. The Canon service centre has send me a Powershot instead that belonged to another customer. What happened to my SLR camera is a mystery and I am still waiting to receive a new camera. My recommendation do not buy this end-of live Canon Digital Rebel XT8MP until Canon takes more care in customer service and in particular in case warranty is claimed.