ID: B00086HTP0-R1PICAMKVFW1V0-A1B8TYXACGNILP
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Zen-Micro-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A1B8TYXACGNILP
ReviewerName: Jonny D
Date: April 11, 2006
Helpful: 6 of 9
Rating: 2.0
Title: Excellent...for 4 months.
Content:
I was pretty excited about receiving the Zen Micro for Christmas this year and that excitement stayed with me for about four months following that. 
It's a great alternative to the Ipod; holds more than the Nano for the same price. The controls may be too touchy for some, but you learn to get used to them and they didn't bother me too much after a few hours of using it. I wasn't too fond of the Itunes imitation program for uploading songs. For some reason it made copies of every song I had, which caused a horrible mess on my media player library. The song quality is excellent and I never had any problems with it until about a week ago. I would have given this thing 5 stars prior to that.
Last week my Zen Micro wouldn't turn on for some reason or another. I could get it to turn on by connecting to my computer with the cable but that does me absolutely no good. I don't know if they poorly made the power switch or what, but it's really a dissapointment. I really wanted to enjoy this player. I loved the fact that it's different from what everyone else has. I've seen a million ipods, but only one other Zen Micro. It's too bad they didn't spend more time constructing these things, because they have the potential to be great.
Anyways, I went to Best Buy today and they told me that the Zen Micro 6 GB has been discontinued. I have the [...] year warranty so they'll be able to replace it, but with a different player. I could have gone with the 8GB color Zen Micro, but I am not willing to take another chance with a Creative product. I'm paying the extra $[...] to purchase a 30GB Ipod. I don't care if everyone has them; at least I know they're reliable. My advice: unless you're willing to take a risk, go with an Ipod instead. [...]