ID: B000G1CY02-R1BO05OZK58F3N-A3GIKHXH8R9TUM
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-HHP1500-Safeheat-Mica-Panel-Heater
ReviewerID: A3GIKHXH8R9TUM
ReviewerName: Laura Hamilton "mslaura"
Date: December 2, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Works just great! I am very pleased.
Content:
I bought the DeLonghi Oil-filled Radiator with ComforTemp, the DeLonghi Micathermic flat panel model, and the Oil-filled Radiator without ComfortTemp. All of them work GREAT. 
I have each one in a section of my @1800sq.ft.house, so that I can heat just the rooms that we are using, instead of turning on central gas heat.
The ComforTemp model heats up our entire great room/family room/dining room and kitchen, which is one big open space with hardwood floors and gets chilly.
The Micathermic model I use to warm up the hallway, bathroom, and kids' bedrooms, especially at night (on a low setting).
The non-ComforTemp model I use to warm up the master bedroom and bathroom.
They all do a fantastic job. Our house is warm, cozy, quiet and comfortable...MUCH more so that when we used the gas forced air central heating, which is incredibly loud, drafty, too hot and dry when it's on, and too cold when it's not.
There were a bunch of comments about the smell of the heaters when new. Well, there was a bit of smell on the first day using the heaters, but it's totally gone now, and it was never really that bad.
There were a bunch of negative comments about the heaters being noisy. Well, if the heater is really cold it does make a few popping noises when it starts heating up (which go away once it's warm) and there is a quiet clicking noise from the thermostat when the heater turns on and off. Seriously, anyone who is bothered by those tiny noises needs to get off the crack already. They are MINOR. It is unreasonable to expect perfect silence, although that's what you get 99% of the time with all three of these heaters.
Honestly, I couldn't be more pleased. I love these heaters and they were a great investment. I have already seen a drop in our utility bills, though our house is warmer and cozier than it was before.
I most highly recommend DeLonghi oil-filled radiators, as well as the micathermic flat panel.