ID: B000CS7UTY-R14XCW8WHGA0JT-ATL0SCAEUPFNK
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Zen-Vision-Video-Player
ReviewerID: ATL0SCAEUPFNK
ReviewerName: JORO the Product Reviewer
Date: January 14, 2006
Helpful: 402 of 420
Rating: 5.0
Title: I now own 2 Vision:M players
Content:
I had ordered one of the players as a gift for a family member, then realized how difficult it appeared to get them, so I ordered another from a second source.
I received the first unit as promised.  I immediately started loading this on it.  It's a little thicker than the iPod, but I actually like how it feels in my hand better (IMHO).  The screen is beautiful, the file formats that are supported are great, the integration with WMP10 and the on-line stores is certainly better than the iPod.  I just love it.  I loved it so much, that when the second unit arrived, I decided to keep it for myself :)
I have used iPod many times before and I do like them.  But they can coexist and the competition will make all the players better.  If you love the iPod's great.  Again, I like them too, but right now I would pick this player.  I have synched up CD music, on-line songs, even a bunch of my TiVo shows (via Tivo To Go TTG).  I have taken those shows and played them directly on my TV too (with an A/V cable).
The currently availability of accessories is a bit frustrating, but livable - I am sure it will not match or surpass the iPod in that respect.  
Like the iPod and other devices like this the screen scratches pretty easily.  I immediately bought some Palm protectors and cut them to fit.  I have customer shields ordered (from theinvisibleshield.com) but this will do for now.
This FM radio works fine.  I personally like one integrated.  It doesn't take any more space and it's nice on rare occasion.  I have read other reviews that say having the FM radio is a "negative" of this player.  Huh?  Why?  If you don't want it, just don't use it.
There is a reason why this little player just won the overall best of the 2006 Consumer Electronics Show (CES).  Even my friends that have iPods snap their heads when they see this.  But again, this shouldn't be a religious discussion of iPods vs. non-iPods.  Buy what you like best and suits your use.  
This one suits mine.  I am even thinking about buying a third one.  Why?  I don't want to share mine (or my wife's) with the kids LOL