ID: B0009GZAGO-RAXD7QFITR0MP-A3EX9PGC97VY3X
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-6-1MP-Digital-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A3EX9PGC97VY3X
ReviewerName: Leigh F. Ishikawa
Date: March 24, 2006
Helpful: 13 of 13
Rating: 5.0
Title: I've fallen in love with photography all over again!
Content:
This is my first DSLR.  I also own Nikon N90 (film).  The construction isn't as solid as N90 (bullet-proof), but it's pretty close.  After using this camera for almost 3 weeks, I've fallen back in love with photography.  Not only am I excited to take photos, but I am also interested in experimenting given there are no development costs!
The only weakness of this camera (for me), is lack of backlit LCD.  When in a dark situation, you may encounter a problem.  (Not yet though).  Some people say CF is better, but because my other camera uses SD, I'm very happy with Nikon's decision.  You can pickup a 1 gig SD card on sale for $30 now.
Summary:
I told my friends that when there's a good DSLR for $500, I will buy it., and so I have.  And after owning this camera for 3 weeks, this is unbelievable for the price!  This is essentially a slightly stripped down D70s.  Yes, there are some nicer features on D70s, but quite frankly I can live without them.  And since I never had them (grid lines, depth of field preview), I don't think I'll even miss them.
SLRs:
I noticed some users complaining about lack of comprehending about SLR.  All SLR manuals are only sufficient to get you through the controls of the camera.  SLRs are not point and shoot and nobody will explain about details of how to take a picture.  In the old days, classes were highly recommended.  But with DSLR, you have no excuse but to blast through hundreds of photos to figure out what is the best way to take a photo.  About the only thing you need is a notebook to keep track of what settings you did and describe the conditions around you.  Though I own and watched N90 video (in the mid 90's) I found this wonderful site:
[...]
Let the flash load completely, and click on "Open Menu" and Nikon will guide you through the basics.   If you go through the entire tutorial, I think it's the equivalent of video tutorial you can buy from them..  (I have not seen the D50 video but that's pretty much what N90 video tutorial covered.).
Conclusion:
This camera has brought back the joy of photography for me.  I am looking forward to taking many memorable pictures with my D50.  I would strongly recommend anybody who wants to take great pictures and are willing to spend time to learn about SLR, this is the camera for you.