ID: B000H0QDCC-R2XNTDPHHKTVHF-A3RTKL9KB8KLID
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Brown
ReviewerID: A3RTKL9KB8KLID
ReviewerName: Stan Vernooy
Date: December 7, 2007
Helpful: 4 of 6
Rating: 1.0
Title: An absolute disaster
Content:
I got this product because it seemed that the industry was moving away from CD's and toward these MP3/ipod/WMA players, and I didn't want to wake up one morning and find that all my painstakingly collected music was unplayable.  But was I ever in for a shock!  This product is nowhere NEAR ready for prime time, and is unacceptable on almost every conceivable level.
Without going into detail on any of my complaints about the device itself (it doesn't even have an on-off switch, let alone an equalizer), the most infuriating problem is the software.  You can't just load tracks from your computer and be done with it - not by a long shot.  You have to KEEP those tracks where the device found them the first time they were "synced," otherwise every one of those tracks will be deleted from the device the next time the device is connected to your computer - and you have no option about this!  Many people have posted online complaints about this bug, and Microsoft has apparently sent out a squad of cybergoons to defend the indefensible, calling users "stupid" if they want to delete those tracks from their hard drives.  (Or if they happen to accidentally erase the tracks.  Or if they want to connect the Zune device to a different computer that doesn't have those tracks.  Or if they want to keep the same tracks in a different folder and/or in a different format  Or if they want to offload the files to a DVD or other storage device.  All those are really stupid ideas, aren't they?)
That "feature" alone makes the Zune system unacceptable, but that's just the tip of the iceberg.  While trying to "sync" tracks from my hard drive to the Zune device, many of the tracks were rejected.  And, in keeping with the total incompetence of the Zune software, there was no error message generated at the time telling me that the attempt to load the tracks had failed.  I only found out about it when I went to a screen that listed the tracks that had been loaded, and found that many were missing.  So then I went to still a THIRD screen (The Zune software is nearly impossible to navigate, BTW) and found a list of tracks that had been "skipped" in my attempt to load them.  I right-clicked on one of the tracks and discovered that there was an error code associated with the problem.  However the software had no idea what the error code meant and directed me to the "Zune Help" website.
What was the website's solution?  "Unfortunately, there is no specific Web Help message for this error yet."
It then directed me to a forum to see whether anyone there had a suggestion.  This forum was a real eye-opener.  I posted my problem on the forum only two days ago, and since that time there have been SEVEN PAGES of new postings, every one of them complaining of some new Zune software problem.  Furthermore, the forum apparently has space enough for only seven pages of postings - which means only two days' worth - and anything beyond that just rolls off into outer space.  And since Microsoft itself has no solution to offer, this device for which I paid $200 is essentially useless.
I should add that there is no user's manual, and that the Zune software has no help function or help file.  There is a website that calls itself a Zune user's manual, but it is as difficult to navigate as the Zune software itself - and that's saying something.  It has no systematic explanation of how to accomplish even the most basic tasks, and makes constant references to menus and links that don't exist on the current version of the software.
Stay away!  This product is as unprofessional and unacceptable as any product could possibly be.