ID: B00067TTZO-R1ZU27FEKU8H25-A3AZHGZ010DP4O
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Zen-Micro-Player-Silver
ReviewerID: A3AZHGZ010DP4O
ReviewerName: M. Le "College Purvue"
Date: October 30, 2005
Helpful: 39 of 40
Rating: 5.0
Title: Comprehensive Review
Content:
I'm going to begin with a basic review and then as an addenum address some of the complaints on the board.
Looking for an mp3 player I was looking for (in order of priority):
1) Audio Fidelity
2) Compatibility with music subscription services
3) Build Quality
4) Portability (including batterly life)
5) Interface
6)Maintenance Costs (i.e. easily replacable, cheap battery)
With this in mind, I was led to the Zen Micro.  I know creative creates great sound cards  (I've had 2 of them) and I had also read that creative had the among the best fidelity of all audio players.  Testing with a friend's zen micro and another's ipod, I noticed a clear difference in quality between the two using the same songs encoded at the same bitrate.  I am, however, an audiophile, so many people may not notice the difference.  Ipods tend to have weaker bass and less clarity.
Zen micro also had the features I was looking for that the ipod didn't: (compatability with subscription serviecs, not having to use system--resource-hogging i-tunes, and being able to transfer files between computers).  The FM tuner and voice recording didn't really play into my account, but they work fine: the FM tuner is a bit weak, and I get a little static listening to NPR, but its not gruesomely bad either (what do you expect out of such a tiny device without an antenna?).  The recording is ok too but the fidelity is really meant for note taking not recording a concert or anything.
The build quality of this thing seems pretty good as well.  The back is a clear, white plastic which I find to be very cool looking.  Unlike the ipod, it will not scratch easily and has a nice glossy finish to it.  The front seems to be a thin anodized aluminum faceplate (the screen is a whole in the faceplate, and on top of the plate is a thick layer wich borders the player and also forms the screen).  The text quality is very good and is about 10 font for characters and 8 or 6 font for time remaining and track number.  I've read reports about the zen taking hard knocks and still working and I believe them (at least everything other than the headphone jack seems solid).
This thing is extremely protable.  It is about 3.8 ounces which is slightly heavier than the ipod mini and the nano, and it is thicker as well but I find that to be great because it cradles more easily into my hand  (the back is curved).  It is light enough so that I don't notice it while exercising using my arm-band at the gym (in terms of weight).  
I've had no problems with the interface either.  Its intuitive and yes, its pretty similar to the ipod's, but I've read that ipod jacked creative's interface in the first place anyways.  Instead of a wheel you have an up-down touch sensitive scroll which is used for volume control and scrolling.  Tapping it lightly selects things.  It is very intuitive and I got use to the sensitivity (which you can adjust) in a few minutes.  It has a very cool backlight as well making it easy to use at night.  In addition, it can be used in your pocket without a problem.  The controls are the only metallic part of the player exposed (the rest is covered in plastic) so its easy to find, and there are 2 small ridges (like the 1-side of a die) that stick up and  help identify where the buttons are by touch.
The battery life is about 11 hours on mine without constant adjustment (I tested it) and about 8 hours with constant adjustment (which usually happens with me).
The battery is removable and can be purchased cheaply on ebay which is a plus.
Now to respond to the caveats:
Ok, there's a lot of variance in the reviews for the Zen Micro so here are a few quick things I would like to point out.
Anyone that insults the Zen Micro and then tells you to buy an ipod (especially a 20 gig one)  seem to me to be  an ipod fanboy trying to turn you away from a good product or is clueless about mp3 players.  The zen micro is not competing really with ipods, its features put it in a different niche.  The normal ipod was just too big for me and I didn't need to have 20 gigs with me at a time.  Also the mediocre audio fidelity was a big turn-off to me.
Yes, there is a headphone problem, but noone is certain how really prevalent it is.  Forums are a terrible way to tell because you're getting a self-selecting group of people.  If yours breaks, of course you're gonna go whine about it online.  If it doesn't, you just continue on doing what you've been doing and don't even know such boards exist so a board full of complaining people may not mean the player is bad.   
That being said, the  headphone problem does seem to be a systematic flaw (at least among those that expereince it) that occurs in  because the headphone jack is apparently not soldered on very tight.  Anecdotal evidence says that newer models are soldered on tighter, but noone knows for sure (not enough time to test).   If you know how to solder components you can fix it but void your warranty.  I don't think its that big of a problem, I talked to a local cambridge soundworks guy who said he never had any problems with the zen micro and that noone has returned it because of a headphone jack problem.   If you're really worried, I suggest you get Amazon's replacement plan rather than Creative's extended warranty.  Creative will send you a refurbished unit if yours gets broken, which begs the question, why is it refurbished in the first place?  With Amazon they will send you a new one, which is a better deal.  THey will also be  likely faster than Creative which has like 1 month turnaround times (no, I don't work for amazon; this is what careful research has shown me).
To solve the headphone jack problem, do not leave your headphones plugged in while in not in use (this also saves battery life), and do not put it in your pocket or anywhere else where it can collide into things.  This should not be hard as you should most likely have a belt clip or whatnot to protect your investment anyways.  Get headphones with a 90 degree jack to limit torque as well.
Small things you might want to know:
The organizer does what it says, display downloaded outlook tasks.   There is up to a three second lag between songs sometimes on shuffle.  This is due to the harddrive in the device moving from one section of the disk to another.  For songs immediately after another its not as noticable.  There is usually about a 1 second average lag between songs when fowarding. 
Thats about it, I just got my purchase and am glad I got it, its a cool little device that had all the features I wanted + some nice bonuses.  I'm a little worried about the headphone problem but I know how to solder and I am extra careful with my player so I feel safe.  I'm certainly glad I got it over an ipod, the sound quality is enough to push the micro far and beyond the ipod to me.
Hope I've been of help.
EDIT:  I've owned this thing for 5 months now and still no headphone jack problem.  I even stopped worrying about it after the first month and just left my headphones jacked in and still no headphone jack problem.  Some dust got underneat the plastic at the edges but I used a business card and just scraped the dust out.  I've even used it to record lectures (be sure to listen to the recording after a few seconds to make sure you're getting good sound).
Overall, I'm very happy with my purchase and would buy it again.