ID: B000WG6XW6-R3R3P83DQT1DMY-A2BTUPD2PM2MRU
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A2BTUPD2PM2MRU
ReviewerName: E. J. Hutchinson
Date: February 16, 2008
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: great player, only minor complaints
Content:
UPDATE - Nov. 8 2008: I had to return my Zune twice. Once because there was dust accumulating on the inside of the screen. Once because the menu just froze while navigating and, after turning off, it never turned on again. Both times I received a "replacement" Zune and had to re-sync everything again. Before you read the review below consider the above. It is a good player but I cannot recommend something that I had to return twice. I cannot figure out how to change the stars but I would stick for 4 stars when it work but 0 stars for reliability.
When you take the Zune out of the box, you feel the steel and see the shine of a glass screen, and you know its going to be good. The video looks outstanding and is very crisp and clear. The screen gets dirty easy but is also easy to wipe off. The menu system is very easy to navigate and there is no leaning curve at all. The center button has a nice gliding feature, which is great if you have a lot of files to scroll through. The software is easy to use  and files sync rather fast. I cannot comment on the social or sharing features as I have not used them. I was very close to giving this player five stars and would recommend it to anyone but I have to knock off a star for the following complaints. There is no equalizer or no way to tweak your sound. The software removed a file from my player that I removed from my PC. I selected the option where I sync file manually but it appears that made no difference. The player and the software do not have advanced options like being able to just copy files over on the PC and not have to deal with this "syncing" stuff. The specs boast of "Up to 5 hours" battery life for video. I charged my battery until the battery indicator was green, then turned it off and locked the buttons. I got on a plane and watched roughly 2.75 hours of video and listened to roughly 20 minutes of music and the battery was dead. I had similar results flying out, although closer to 3.5 hours of video. Granted, not too shabby for such a small device but I have to point out that my battery life so far does not equal the specs. In summary, this is a great player, especially for video.