ID: B0009GZAGO-RYUYWGW663NQN-A1HZVPZC30O2XX
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-6-1MP-Digital-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A1HZVPZC30O2XX
ReviewerName: S. Lonergan
Date: March 8, 2007
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Photos - Very Intuitive/User Friendly
Content:
WOW.
It had been a while since I'd been in the market for a digital camera, and this was my first dive in to the DSLR world (I had many years ago been a die-hard SLR guy, but with the advent of digital, I had found myself resigned to high-quality P&Ss for their ease of use).  So long story short, I was in desperate need of and long overdue for some more control over my picture taking and I found it in the Nikon D50.
Like so many others (looking for a good entry-level DSLR camera) probably have, I easily narrowed my selection down to the Canon (Digital Rebel) 350 and the Nikon D50... I didn't need more than 6MP, really, since that's plenty to produce a very nice looking 13x19 print and how often are we going bigger than that, right?  After many hours of searching online and reading user reviews and visiting local electronics stores and generally learning these cameras inside and out before purchasing, I came to the conclusion that they're pretty damn similar.  The primary reason that I leaned toward and eventually purchased the Nikon is because it just "felt better."  A little heavier, perhaps... I think it just felt like a very well-built camera and was very comfortable in my hands - which is important.  This is also the reason that I went with the D50 over the D40 -- I actually appreciate the fact that the D50 is a little bigger that its newer D40 counterpart.
Anyway - I would highly recommend this camera to anyone who is new to DSLR or is making the move from SLR to DSLR... The menus are very intuitive and user friendly - Even for a guy who has been using Canons for a while.  The photo quality is outstanding - I've already blown-up, framed, and hung a few B&Ws around the house.  Overall an excellent camera for the price.
Incidentally, my first accessory purchase was a 50mm f/1.8 Nikkor lens -- EXCELLENT addition to the package - the pictures this glass takes are AMAZING.