ID: B000AQSMPO-R1UPGRFMVRG9PC-A344P5E3APX3KO
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-B60-Special-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing
ReviewerID: A344P5E3APX3KO
ReviewerName: M. Kipe
Date: January 23, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Keurig won me over!
Content:
I have been using the Senseo pod machine for several years and made my own pods by just placing two scoops of ground coffee in a small basket filter and putting it in the large pod holder. It was my husband that wanted something different as the coffee wasn't strong enough for him. We decided to try the Keurig B60. I wasn't keen on having to buy the Kcups which are plastic but because it does have its own Kcup for my own coffee, I agreed to getting it. 
I have to admit that the Keurig choice of coffees is awesome as well as very good. The coffee from any pods I've tried was horrible! As my husband likes his coffee strong, he is still experimenting with the various bold ones to find his favorite. 
The secret to getting good coffee from the Kcup when you use your own ground coffee, is in the grinding. Either grind the coffee beans as fine as your coffee grinder will go or buy expresso coffee. It's like a powder essentially. Wow, the coffee was so strong on the large setting I couldn't drink it. Of course I don't like my coffee really strong.
Also I like the fact that it's a wonderful hot water dispenser for my own tea bags. I won't pay what Keurig asks for their tea Kcups but I have to admit that their teas are good. A tea bag in my hot water works for me.
One of the things that I like the most is that with the B60, I can now use any of the mugs I have. That was so frustrating with the Senseo. A lot of my mugs were too tall to use in it. The B60 even takes my travel mug which measures 7 inches tall without the lid. To make enough for a large mug, you can do as many ounces as you want by simply opening the lid and closing it again so the numbers flash and start brewing again without changing the Kcup. It might get too weak by putting water through one Kcup more than once but you can do it. With just dispensing water, you can definitely repeat as much as you want by simply opening the lid and closing it again so the numbers flash. I can even fill a teapot if it lines up with the dispenser.
We are pleased with our Keurig B60. Yes, it is relatively expensive but as always, you do get what you pay for. Any good coffee maker is going to cost more. I have the Technivorm Moccamaster for when we want a pot of coffee and it is the best one ever! It took me 25 years to give in to paying the price to get one but I should have done it long ago. For all the coffee makers we've gone through in that time, I could have had one really good one!
The Keurig B60 (I deliberatly measured) delivers an exact if not a smidgen more 6, 8, and 10 oz amount on the various settings. I don't know what the 5.25, 7.25, and 9.25 oz are all about. Now that is with dispensing water. Perhaps after the water goes through the coffee, it does lose a little volume.
We have no complaints so far with the Keurig B60. The price for Kcups on Amazon with auto delivery is the best around. We also like the variety pack we found at Bed, Bath, and Beyond and use the 20% off coupon.