ID: B0000C8VU8-R1GS4K4KXPA80U-A2DGP3CC6D0TKL
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-6-3MP-Digital-Rebel-Camera
ReviewerID: A2DGP3CC6D0TKL
ReviewerName: paparazzi83
Date: May 7, 2004
Helpful: 11 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: It's the best for less than $1,000!!!
Content:
As with any digital camera on the market, there is no &quot;perfect&quot; price/perfomance ratio. The DRebel however at the time it was released was arguably a excellent camera for the cost! The pictures (if taken correctly) can be amazing. And the manual control of the camera gives you a lot of artistic freedom I have yet to see in other cameras. Even though all my friends are dissapointed that one cannot look at the LCD there's assurance in the viewfinder because what you see is really what you get. Oh, and that wide angle lens... wow! You have no clue what a difference that makes in a small room! This camera is a great value! The only problem I had is that after 18,000 shots in 90 days the auto-focus went out, something that could be easily repaired by Canon but since the store I bought it from has a 90-day return policy I opted to return the camera and buy a Canon 10D. Some small annoyances I wish Canon will fix since Nikon is hot on their tail- The slap of the mirror is in excess. Really. Trying to take pictures in a quiet room can be very unnerving.- The Compact-Flash Read/Write borders on pitiful sometimes. Yeah I know the files are large but it really takes just too long.- You learn easily that the 4 image buffer isn't enough if you photograph action. - Uh, why on earth are the Aperature and LCD Light buttons about an inch away from my thumb? They need to be moved closer. - When ISO or WB are adjusted it would be nice to have that information in the viewfinder- it's annoying having to hold the camera down to adjust these two paramaters (no real excuse about the ISO!)I think that's about it. If you have NO investment in lenses I may suggest a Nikon D70 if you can afford it, should you think you will become a serious photographer. If you have any Canon EF lenses the D-Rebel is a great choice, especially if you cannot afford a 10D or a new investment in Nikon and the D70. If you barely have the cash for a D-Rebel buy the D-Rebel. Or if you want to be a casual user.I would buy a D70, however bought an extra 28-200mm Tamron Canon Lens so I will end up purchasing a Canon 10D. :)Hope any of this helps!