ID: B00099R22G-R3P88X46U5O4EY-A14S0KREWSU4W2
Category: Laptops
Product: Gateway-M675-Notebook-Laptop-Computer
ReviewerID: A14S0KREWSU4W2
ReviewerName: Errol Allen
Date: March 23, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Computer
Content:
I have had this computer for about a month now.And it is great.At first I said I would not buy a gateway when they first came out because I owned one a long time ago and it was not nice.Thats when windows 98SE was out and that was the worse operating system I have ever noticed. Ever! But now you have vista to take it's place.So I decided to go ahead after years of thinking and I bought this gateway and it is by far the best looking and the best working one I have seen today.I work on computers and I would normally by a dell are a IBM around 5 years of age because they last forever.They new model computers I don't care what model they are will last you for a year tops if you use them enough.As you can see this laptop is still around and still working! Get it ! How many can say that when they go to besy buy and buy a laptop new! How many times did you go back and if your warranty was up you were screwed! Its a great laptop with a full keyboard I mean a full keyboard like you have on a desktop.Not squeezed together like the newer model laptops! All kind of buttons for your every need.I give this laptop rave reviews and its still going and count the years when it first came out and then count the years of the newer model laptop you have and does it still work.For this laptop to still work after 8 years I am please with no problems so how about that! Cant say that for many laptops now a days.You get 1 year with all that junk in it and it will last 1 year.Now I ask you whats better a laptop working for a long time are a suped up one that last a year.I got my money worth plus and this laptop still works without a hitch.Upgraded to 2gb of memory and 100gb hardrive.And now I can add up to 500 gigs with the new IDE PATA DRIVES.Man I have no complaints take it from me it will last you for ever! And I can put any operating system on it including Windows 7. Hows that for a laptop 8 years old and still can hang better than the new laptops Haaaa! haaa!! I bet you understand me now! Good luck cause this laptop rocks!