ID: B0000X7CMQ-R27UBZ9KKCCP97-A21JPQQE03GLGU
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Zojirushi-EC-BD15-Thermal-Carafe-Coffee
ReviewerID: A21JPQQE03GLGU
ReviewerName: TooSassy1
Date: June 22, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Most helpful vs negative reviews (June 2009)
Content:
I started out by reading "most helpful positive and negative reviews for two days.  Then I switched to "most recent reviews order", thinking that surely some of the negatives had to have been addressed by the company by now; then read them again in that order.  Then I ordered the machine. 
Once I received the machine, I looked at all the things that had been pointed out by the naysayers and couldn't believe how wrong "I" think they were.  It doesn't take a rocket scientist, just a person of normal intelligence to make a really nice cup of coffee.  Okay, so maybe some of you aren't awake yet.  But if that's the case, program it ahead of time when you are awake.
We found this machine to be fast, efficient, made a wonderful carafe of coffee (using less grounds), and has a beautiful/sleek design.
The screw lid is sooooo easy to get on and off.  Nothing like my ex-Krups (thermal) machine.  I was bitten by a dog in the muscle part of my hand between my thumb and first finger and have since decided I just can't correctly screw ANYTHING on and off again, until now.
I didn't have a problem with #4 filters, but just in case I was wrong, I followed a tip from a reviewer.  One gal mentioned about putting it in the basket, wetting it, and then adjusting it.  Works great, THANKS for the tip!  Another tip mentioned was to rinse your carafe in hot water before running the coffee through to keep it warmer.  I don't know that's necessary, but it's a "Make sense" tip and I did exactly that.  
Some reviews mentioned an overflowing mess on the counter.  Well the filter basket only fits into the machine one way SNUGGLY.  The basket is round, except for the back lip where there are projections on each side.  These line up with the back side of the stainless basket perfectly.  Not an issue!
The water outlet is pretty neat in that you don't have to remember to swing it back over the grounds.  If you look under the lid, you will see there is a little sloped piece that when you close the lid, it automatically pushes the water outlet into correct position over the grounds.
The slow pouring complaint might be a bit confusing to some. Just remember to line up the little dot on the opposite (of open/close) side of the lid with the dot on the snout.  My Krups machine always poured coffee all over the cup and counter, and if you opened it too much the lid fell off.
Some complaints said the machine was quite tall.  It's the same height as our Krups.  The lid does open from the top, but gee, why not just pull it out from under your countertop, make your coffee, and then push it back into place?  Someone else said that the nice little carafe lid gets lost easily.  Hmmm, after you make the coffee, you put the carafe lid on to keep the coffee hot.  You don't have to remove it to pour the coffee, and when not using why not keep it with your filters?  
The carafe is light weight and cool to the touch, the filter basket has a handle; the program panel is well marked with nice big light colored buttons on a dark background which are easy to see and push.
I haven't been able to find true, any fault mentioned in the customer reviews SO FAR.  BUY, BUY, BUY!Zojirushi EC-BD15 Fresh Brew Thermal Carafe Coffee Maker