ID: B0000YTYGM-R1GS2MNQJRP5JJ-AUPU634637S46
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DTC-975BKN-Programmable-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: AUPU634637S46
ReviewerName: RochHam
Date: March 31, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great coffee that stays warm for hours
Content:
We have had our DTC-972 for a month and it really makes a fine tasting brew. We have had lower cost glass carafe units for years but after our last Mr Coffee konked out we wanted to try out a stainless carafe unit -  we almost bought a sale priced B&D unit at Target but luckily did our research first and found out it was a loser.  We have many Cuisinart kitchen gadgets: high end food processor, Griddler, waffle iron ... good success with all of them.  
PROs - Easy to use day after day. Coffee tastes great - we "celebrate" and buy Seattle's Best or Caribou a few times per year but usually get Folgers Gourmet or Fr Roast liking a darker brew after years of living on the east coast.  So we are not connoisseurs by any means but we like two strong mugs a day with cream .  Easy to program however trying to see the little LCD "AUTO" button on the top right is a challenge after dark (it stays in Auto mode unless you do a Manual blend which is nice).
A major pro is you don't have to mess with the top to pour the coffee, it just comes out.  The outside of the carafe is not warm so just sit it on the counter by breakfast.   It's a sharp looker with all our other SS appliances.
Obviously we cannot comment on reliability yet but function and performance is very good.
CONs - Not really a con but this is a tall unit; it fits nice by our sink with no cabinet over the top.  
Some have complained on screwing the top on the carafe but it goes on fine if you watch the threads, taking a hard twist for the final 1/8 turn to line up the pour spout.
Ah the beeping, would be nice to be able to turn off the 5 beeps signalling the brew is done, but usually close to the time the bed alarm sounds (maybe I will take the bottom off and "snip the beeper" someday when I first clean the unit).