ID: B00008UI0R-R6GV3ZJTXO98P-A2UFVKJKGW9GIR
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A2UFVKJKGW9GIR
ReviewerName: Sandra J. Weiner
Date: March 20, 2007
Helpful: 7 of 8
Rating: 2.0
Title: Not what I was hoping for
Content:
I have always used a Hoover canister vacuum and have always been satisfied with the performance of this product.  My last vacuum (Hoover PowerMax Deluxe canister with bags) was going on 16 years of age and, although it was still doing a fairly good job, I thought it was time for a change. Also, I wanted to try a "bagless" vacuum so that I wouldn't have to buy those expensive bags anymore. After much research, the Hoover WindTunnel Electric Bagless Canister seemed like the ideal choice - WRONG!!!  The one positive is the suction power. There is no doubt that this is a powerful vacuum.  My negatives are: it is extremely messy to clean the dirt recepticle (in fact, you can't fully empty it); the filter is very difficult to clean even with the little implement that comes with it; if you have any breathing problems forget this bagless vacuum because you'll be choking by the time you're done emptying it (I wonder how much dust is going back into the room where you are attempting to empty it?); the "on-board" accessories are inferior to the ones that I have on my 16 year old model and the extra floor attachment and small power attachment can't be on board because there's no place for them to "sit". What is the point of having these attachments if you have to run into another room to get them when you need them?  Again, my older model had the spaces for all of these attachments on board, where and when you need them.  Lastly, the retractable cord is several feet shorter than the old model, which means that I have to plug and unplug the vacuum several times while I clean so that I can reach all areas of my house (and I don't live in a mansion!) I am totally dissatisfied with this product and am hoping for a partial refund because even though I have used it twice I don't want it!