ID: B000SQY87W-R1K3WT09E8KXQZ-A18YFCLL3GBD0T
Category: AirConditioners
Product: NewAir-Refurbished-Portable-Conditioner-Features
ReviewerID: A18YFCLL3GBD0T
ReviewerName: Tara T.
Date: August 18, 2008
Helpful: 27 of 28
Rating: 2.0
Title: Cooling problems and a defect make ACP-1000E a mixed bag
Content:
I bought the Newair ACP-1000E because we live in an apartment and a 'portable' AC would be much easier to install and move and wouldn't require approval from the apartment management. The ACP-1000E arrived quickly and was well-packed. It had a pleasing design (we nick-named it R2) and, though heavy, is fairly easy to roll around on its casters. Installation was straight forward. A simple matter of mounting the supplied window kit and attaching the exhaust hose.
When turned on the closed louvers automatically open (and shut when its turned off - a cool effect) and the LCD panel is pretty with descriptive icons for the various settings, though I found navigating through them confusing. 
This first problem I encountered were the horizontal louvers that are supposed to direct the air flow from floor to ceiling. However, on our unit they only went from the floor to mid-room, thereby not directing the cold air towards the ceiling where hot air rises (the horizontal and vertical louvers can be independently controlled, so I set the horizontal ones stationary at mid-room and let the vertical sweep left and right).
The expandable exhaust hose (looks like the same type on the back of a clothes dryer) is about 6' long and the instructions rightly recommend keeping it as short and straight as possible so the heat has the shortest path out of the room. However, due to the location of the only window in our bedroom I had to use almost all six ft. of it and create two rather sharp bends. Therein lies the problem with portable air conditioners. The exhaust hose gets very hot and radiates heat back into the room, thereby canceling out a lot of the cooling power of the AC (a traditional window-mounted AC doesn't have this problem since the hot exhaust is sent directly out the back of the unit).
Due to this we've been unable to cool a medium-sized bedroom below 79 degrees with the unit on high when the outside temp was in the upper 90s. Using a box fan to direct the cold air on us helped somewhat, but it remained uncomfortably warm. The unit is also noisy, though no more than a window-mounted AC, so if you can't sleep with a window-mounted AC you won't be able to with the Newair ACP-1000E.
In conclusion, if you can keep the heat radiated back into the room to a minimum by keeping the exhaust hose short then this unit may work for you, but with the wide variables in room and window configurations this may not always be possible.