ID: B00008J4C7-R3VP8Z2LS3X089-A2I18AVWS6VP6
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Shark-Power-Pet-Lightweight-Canister
ReviewerID: A2I18AVWS6VP6
ReviewerName: Daddy Love
Date: April 22, 2005
Helpful: 28 of 28
Rating: 4.0
Title: Low Cost Hepa Filter vacuum cleaner
Content:
We needed a new vacuum and my wife was out of town, so I decided to buy one. (It is important to note that I am a 6 foot, 220 lb male,an engineer, and very detail oriented so my criteria might be different in judging a vacuum than the average housewife's.) Also, we use the Hoover steam and vac regularly to steam clean our carpets but we still need a vacuum to vacuum the carpets. We also take our shoes off before we come in the house.  We are not fanatics, but we have small children and don't want them to be sick unnecessarily.
We had borrowed a friend's upright vacuum and before we returned it, we wanted to change the bag and the Hepa Filter in order to return it in better shape than we borrowed it. I was surprised to see the bag and filter cost over $30, even though the new Vacuum cost only $99, so I decided that was 1 vacuum cleaner I could do without and that vacuums that needed bags were basically a scam to get you to buy the bags and filters. 
Therefore, I was looking for 
1) a vacuum that did not deliver the dirt it picked up into the air. 
2) a vacuum that did not require bags
3) a vacuum that sold for less than $200.
I went to Target and saw the Euro-Pro ep722 and it looked like it satisfied the requirements. Hepa filter, bagless and about $99. I bought it and took it home to test it, with the idea that if it too was some sort of gimmick, I would return it immediately. That was about 2 years ago. My wife loves this vacuum and I like it because the air coming out of the vacuum is clean, it cleans the floor really well. 
WE BRUSH OFF THE FILTER EVERY TIME WE USE IT.  The first time I used it, it picked up so much dust that the filter clogged and the motor overheated and shut off. I realized that the filter was trapping the dust most vacuums deliver into the air and therefore the filter had to be cleaned. Since then, the motor has not overheated. We wash the filter after about every 4 uses and we have purchased 2 replacement filters. This vacuum has been used once a week for two years to clean a 2 bedroom, 2 bath house and it still works like new. Occasionally we have a housekeeper come over to clean the house and she really likes this vacuum also because it is lightweight and does not spit dust into the air. The one negative aspect of this vacuum is the emptying of the dust cup; we take the entire vacuum outside next to the trash to do this because the dust tends to go everywhere. Even though this is not desireable, it is better than the dust remaining on the floor in the house where most vacuums leave it. We then wash the plastic dust cup in the sink to remove the dust that electrostatically remains on the plastic.
The question a buyer of a vacuum cleaner must ask himself is "What do you want in a vacuum cleaner?" If you want a vacuum that picks up the dust and dirt, you must ask yourself how you intend to dispose of the dust once you collect it and how much you are willing to spend to do it.