ID: B000BR0MFK-R2DQ22NZ2G1ZWG-A10RG5RMANRB4I
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-nano-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A10RG5RMANRB4I
ReviewerName: Jalabadze Vasil
Date: July 14, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 2.0
Title: Nice player, but expected some more
Content:
I love music tooo much, I am listening everywhere and anytime - at home, at the office, in the streets etc... iPod Nano is really nice thing, it's design is amazing, dimension is just wonderful, it's menu is quite easy to use but I am giving the 2 stars and not more... So why? this is a good question... 
First of all I don't like the soft - iTune - for storing music files in to the player. It is too confusing to use... 
If I compare this player to the NW-HD5 from SONY which I am using for 3 years (Purchased at amazon.com - here is the link http://www.amazon.com/Sony-NW-HD5-Network-Walkman-Digital/dp/B0009GUE06/ref=pd_bbs_1?ie=UTF8&s=electronics&qid=1216062276&sr=8-1 )  I can easylly say that the software for this player is much more better and easier to use... I am storing songs and albums with a one click, without any playsists, just drag and drop and clicking one button.
The second issue is with player itself... sometimes when I connect it to the PC iPod crashes and buttons are inactive. You can't do anything until battery goes down and the player turns off. This is really big and very uncomfortable issue. And again, if I compare to the NW-HD5 can say following - Yes sometimes this player crashes too, but you can fix this easy, just remove the battery and player will restart and continue working normally, on iPod you are powerless.
Also I don't like that I cann't remove battery, If I could I would buy an extra one and would forgot abaut it's lifetime when outdoor... again my old SONY NW-HD5 allows me to do so and I have purchessed an extra battery and I am so happy...
So if you would like to buy a realy lovely thing with many features (calendar, games, video playback, Picture viewer etc...) you can choose iPod Nano, but if you enjoy listening for wonderful music then go for SONY's products.