ID: B000ALMLUQ-R21PUJ444DY8IV-AZ8XSDMIX04VJ
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Flavia-J10NBK-Fusion-Drinks-Station
ReviewerID: AZ8XSDMIX04VJ
ReviewerName: L. WOS
Date: January 4, 2006
Helpful: 56 of 58
Rating: 5.0
Title: I'M SO HAPPY I BOUGHT THIS UNIT !!
Content:
I almost bought a Tassimo, but glad I read the reviews, which is what caused me to look into this unit instead. I read all it's reviews and couldnt find anyone who had a bad experience with it.  ONE NOTE...... the TRAVEL MUG that comes included in the MEADLY PACK DOES FIT.  You have to read the instruction manual which most people dont. It specifically says on PAGE 9, and I quote " THE DRIP TRAY CAN ALSO BE REMOVED TO ACCOMMODATE YOUR TRAVEL MUG".  Reading ALL of the isntruction booklet is highly recommended. 
Anyway, the best part of this machine is that it accepts any size mug or cup by way of it's sliding head adjustment. It slides down covering your container opening, so there is absolutely no splash out as the beverage is dispensed directly into your container. 
I love the removable water reservoir, which will holds 32 oz of water...or about (6) 7oz cups of your favorite brew.
 You can use or not use the optional water filter. Your choice.
The BEST part of this unit is it's simplicity. Slide your selected beverage packet into the holder, close the lid, push a button and PRESTO, in 30 seconds you have a wonderful fresh brewed drink, then open the head and dispose of the empty packet. I can go from making a cup of Columbian Coffee, to Lemon Calm tea and then make a cup of Hot Chocolate Cappuccino and not have to "clean" out anything. There is no way to transfer flavors from one brew to the next. No drippy pods to fool with, no filters to trap flavors, no splash back, no post beverage dripping. 
The Flavia Fusion is actually better than their SB100. Like the others said, you cant brew the two packets which makes their Cappuccinos and other "speciality" drinks, like Chai Latte, Milky Way Chococcino. Pumpkin Pie Latte, Irish Cream Mochaccino, Milky Way Latte and a fabulous Chococcino. 
The unit is smaller than the Tassimo and some others,  but you'll still need some counter space. But, It's well worth it.
The Maximum drink volume the packet can make is up to 7 oz.....which to some may look small. I've found that I can immediately "re-use" the same packet for a second brew cycle to double the volume of the coffee and tea drinks. 
Flavia has 30 different beverages available, and some can be used together to create speciality drinks. They are also in the process of creating more products. Flavia is a division of  Mars Inc.....the same people who make Milky Ways, Smickers, M&M's and other confections. I wonder if they'll come up with a Snickers Latte??? in the future.
As my Title says, I'm so happy I bought this unit. It's a tea, coffee, hot chocolate, latte, espresso cappuccino machine all rolled into one, WITH NO MESSY CLEAN UP of the unit or your counter inbetween drinks. Just pop a new packet in and you're good to go.
I hope Amazon.com will look into selling the drink packets.
For someone who likes variety, and doesnt want to have a half dozen machines laying around......take a hard look at the Flavia Fusion.  You wont be disappointed.
UPDATE.......... FLAVIA PACKETS..........
If you go to bfcoffee.com and email them about Flavia coffee's and teas, they will send you back their current price list. They will sell to individuals, but the minimum order is a "case" (which is 100 packets of Coffee, 72 packets of Cocoa or 140 packets of Tea)...but the good news is they do offer a VARIETY CASE, which allows you to mix and match flavors to make a case of Coffee's or  a case of Teas. 
I know a case sound like a lot, but once you get hooked on Flavia's ease of use, you'll find you'll have that late evening cup of cocoa, decaf coffee  or tea, or a second cup of Java in the morning.  Prices per case start around $34.50 for the Coffee's and $36.60 up to 58.50 for the teas. The cocoa is going for $29.95 a case. So, between Flavia's web site and this vendor, and ebay, you should have no problems finding replacement packets.
March 25, 2006
Flavia machine still going strong. I use it at least 2-3 times a day.  Have already had to re-order packets, like the Chai Tea, Cocoa, Froth packet and Breakfast Blend coffee. BFCOFFEE.COM is the best place for prices anywhere....even better than Flavia's own site. I'm sipping a cup of Columbia coffee right now. Americans dont usually like a "strong" cup of coffee, so after the unit brews the packet the first time, I just re-push the light and let it brew again in the same mug. It comes out just the right strength for me. I would buy this unit again, without a second thought. It's that good.
May 13th.....
Thought you might like to see my unit and how I store my Flavia Packets...so look for my 2 photos under  " customer photos" just below Amazon's picture of the Falvia Machine.