ID: B000FIY3LY-R2O7RIYJCMB5JE-A15RPFTQOPSYLE
Category: AirConditioners
Product: Amcor-PLM14000EH-14000-BTU-Portable-Conditioner
ReviewerID: A15RPFTQOPSYLE
ReviewerName: K. E. Wilson
Date: December 20, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great, but READ THIS for caveats
Content:
We live in the arid eastern portion of L.A., so things like very high humidity are not a concern.  We bought this for our remodeled and, most importantly, re-insulated garage (complete with ceiling and insulated door).  The garage was unbearable 8-10 months a year due to heat or cold.  The new insulation keeps the temperature fairly consistent.  For instance, for over a week we've had temps that range from 36 to 58 and the garage temperature has kept in the upper-50's overnight.  
This unit is GREAT at making a ten-degree change in heat or cooling and I have no complaints about its functioning.  There are two important things to bear in mind however.
FIRST - AMCOR has packaged this VERY poorly.  The Styrofoam on the bottom is about a half-inch too shallow.  Thus, in shipping it compresses, exposing the light, plastic casters on the bottom to the full brunt of bumps and bangs during transit.  We bought three of these before we got one that wasn't destroyed (casters shattered and the bottom pressed in).  AMAZON was VERY good about handling the returns.  Just make sure you have it delivered where it's going to be installed, because that's where they'll pick it up.  Otherwise you'll have to lug it to a UPS Store (I'm 6'2", 230 pounds and in good shape and it was tough for me).  Also, try to order it at the BEGINNING of your credit card cycle, as they post return credits fairly quickly - all three purchases and two returns were on the same statement for us.  Also, if you're a PRIME member, consider the $4 extra for express shipping.
SECOND - AMCOR was in trouble when I bought this in October.  They have closed their technical support phone number and web help.  You are left with just a generic e-mail address which promises that a member of management while get back to you.  I wrote to them about the broken cord holder (no big deal), right away, and two months later I've heard nothing from them - I long ago stopped holding my breath.
In summary, AMAZON offers excellent customer service.  AMCOR does not.