ID: B0001A9C6C-R1MY3G2SUR9S1D-AU78WGAXA3IY1
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-mini-M9437LL-MODEL
ReviewerID: AU78WGAXA3IY1
ReviewerName: Chelle "Chelle"
Date: November 30, 2004
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: A Brilliant Idea
Content:
The iPod Mini is quite possibly one of the best birthday presents I've ever received. That it allows you to have such a mixture of music, all of your favorite songs and artists, in one compact player is amazing and so very necessary to a music lover's life. To never again have to cart along tons of CDs on vacations and road trips, etc., is such a joy. The cost, initially, is indeed overwhelming--especially for someone who wasn't so lucky as to get one as a gift--but if you really think about it, the product compensates for the cost in a week.
Able to fit comfortably in the smallest of my pants' pockets, the Mini is perfect for use at any time. And even though it doesn't have as large a storage capacity as the slightly larger iPod's, it still mantains a good size collection that, even if you were to listen to it straight for a number of days, you'd never run out of new songs.
My one main complaint with the product is the battery life. As another reviewer mentioned, the eight hour battery life you are quoted when you go to purchase one is indeed a myth. I can get three, maybe four, consecutive hours tops out of mine. And the battery icon is a little deceiving because when it gets down to the end of a charge it jumps a couple of times as though it can't quite figure out how much life it has left. It can go either way: you may get more time out of it than you expect, but you may also get less. It seems unbelievable that there is no true way to actually shut off the iPod, and you have to be aware that you may not actually be sending it into some kind of hibernating mode when you hold that pause button. Now, granted I'm not big time into technical gadgets--though I do find that I enjoy them--and I only recently have been using the product. There may be a way to make sure it "shuts off" to the best of it's ability, but I still advise that you be conscious of what you're doing else you will lose more battery life than you'd like. If you are taking the iPod along on a vacation it is definitely advisable to bring the charger because you will undoubtedly need it at least once during the trip. Also, as another reviewer mentioned, it's a good idea to have the lock on when you are not actively using it. The touchpad is indeed very, very sensitive (not to mention a little erratic when it's being used to search.) As a side note, I have also heard that the warranty package offered by Apple is a wise investment.
The iTunes software is easy to use and navigate, which is a definite plus, and there are a number of accessories available that will allow you to personalize your iPod. I'm sure as time passes I will run into little problems here and there, but so far I am more than pleased with this product. I can't imagine not having it in my life.