ID: B000VPNYSO-R1ZIC0942N2FEA-A28JD2UPU52QCY
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Sony-Alpha-12-24MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A28JD2UPU52QCY
ReviewerName: Brendan E. Goold "Photoloser"
Date: September 29, 2008
Helpful: 10 of 206
Rating: 2.0
Title: Is every other review a company plant? Or did real photographers just not bother to review this camera?
Content:
The Sony SLRs are toys designed to compete in a market in which they already failed. They are just re-branded Minolta DSLRS, and photographers were so unhappy with the Minolta DSLRS that no one ever purchased one except kids and old photographers with Minolta gear from the days of film back when they still produced quality products.
With the exception of some gimmick features like image stabilization, Sony does not offer anything with this camera that Nikon and Canon did not offer earlier and cheaper. Nikon and Canon both also offer image stabilization in their lenses, which is an alternative that provides better results when it really matters. When you use a Sony DSLR for any extended period of time, you will start to notice that it is missing buttons for commonly accessed features such as ISO and white balance, which are hidden deep within menus that take a long time to access and change, and you will notice that the high ISO performance being touted by other reviewers is grainy and extremely subpar when compared to the cameras being offered by Nikon and Canon. 
Canon and Nikon offer better cameras, cheaper, with more lenses. In fact, if you buy the right Nikon or Canon DSLR, there is a good chance you can still use lenses going back to the 1950s (this is true for Nikon, I am not sure about Canon). These lenses are still extraordinary. You will be able to use lenses made into the far future. Will Sony still be around? Minolta isn't, and you're betting on the same technology that already failed once.
The Sony won't take bad pictures; any camera, even a cheap point and shoot, will take beautiful pictures. But a Sony DSLR will fight against you and try to stop you from taking those pictures, you want a good camera that knows what it is doing and is trying to help you along the creative process.