ID: B000VDQ38E-R1K9EVI21BOEPE-A1WJO37SZZF7IS
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1WJO37SZZF7IS
ReviewerName: RobinG
Date: September 18, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: So far so good....
Content:
I too have 2 long haired cats and was drawn to this model based upon it's name.  I can see that people either love this vacuum or harbor deep seeded personal resentment towards it.  I decided on this one mainly based on price.  I have owned sooooo many vacuum cleaners over the years.  I paid too much for all of them, and they were all big disappointments.  I bought the Kirby vacuum because I let the salesperson into my home when I was much more naive about these things.  He convinced me to spend $1,200 on a "complete" cleaning system for my first home.  He could have sold ice to Eskimos as that amount of money 20 years ago was like $12,000.  
Over the years I have purchased many other less expensive disappointments, but the price to value wasn't there in any of them.  Oreck, Electrolux, Hoover, and the list goes on. 
I have decided that they all suck (no pun intended) and just don't do well over the long haul, regardless of price. I no longer view vacuum cleaners as an investment, but merely a tool to get the job done and something that you will likely replace in a few years no matter how much you "invested".
I am a woman and I put this thing together myself in 20 minutes.  I agree the instructions are useless and I worked from the picture and my own common sense.  There are only 3 screws and the rest are snap on parts. I don't think this vacuum is loud either.  It makes a sound I would expect from a vacuum cleaner.  No more, no less. It is a bit heavier than my previous vacuum (Oreck), but not by much. I just did the maiden voyage and vacuumed my carpets and could see all the pet hair and dirt in the holder. I like being able to see what I picked up and not having any bags to deal with is a plus.
I spent $150 as opposed to $550 for the Dyson pet hair model.  Only time will tell if spending the extra $400 for a Dyson would be been a better choice, but I doubt it.