ID: B00005IBX8-R2DH0MAHBLJ45U-A2BWZGD7S0JZQJ
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC1000BK-12-Cup-Coffeemaker-Black
ReviewerID: A2BWZGD7S0JZQJ
ReviewerName: Martin P. McCarthy
Date: April 26, 2004
Helpful: 34 of 38
Rating: 3.0
Title: Well, it Makes Coffee...
Content:
The Cuisinart DCC-1000 bears the brand name of Cuisinart which is supposed to instill confidence in the quality of the product. Unfortunately, this particular Cuisinart product is middle-of-the-road at best. Why? See the strengths and weaknesses below.Strengths:1) Auto shut-off - Very convenient for those of us who can never bring themselves to shut the coffeemaker off. For the reviewer who had difficulty trying to enable the auto-off feature, set the dial to &quot;Auto-Off&quot; and then set the allotted time using the &quot;hr&quot; and &quot;min&quot; buttons.2) Programmable - Very handy for having fresh brewed coffee to greet you at work or home.3) Taste - The coffeemaker plus the charcoal filter produces a fine tasting cup of joe.Weaknesses:1) Filling the coffemaker - THIS is a big deficiency. The mechanics for filling the coffeemaker using the carafe (as opposed to using a sink-based vegetable sprayer for example) are poor. The placement of the lid combined with the narrowness of the water resevoir makes for a difficult pour. Many times, I will end up with water either still in the carafe, in the cone or else, spilled on the floor.2) The use of cone filters - Generally, it's personal preference whether one likes cone filters or basket filters for the automatic drip coffeemaker and my stated preference is for the basket filter. However, even with that bias revealed, the Cuisinart still presents difficulty. Sometimes, the cone filter will bend under the pressure of the sprayed water blocking filitration to the coffee grinds and what you will end up with is filtered water. This proves exceedingly annoying.Make no mistakes, even with the cone filter, this product could have achieved a 5 star rating if it were not for the clumsy designs of the water resevoir and the difficulties in filling it.  If you have a vegetable sprayer or are a proficient master at pouring from the resevoir, then I recommend buying this Cuisinart. If you are like me and either have this coffemaker at work or if you are at home with no vegetable sprayer and are not proficient in the carafe pour, then I would suggest another product.