ID: B000NVXF26-R2G4B98MFS7PCD-A27UN1REP2LE81
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Digital-Stabilization-14-42mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A27UN1REP2LE81
ReviewerName: Ken Yeh
Date: January 7, 2008
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: If you're deciding whether to upgrade to a DSLR...
Content:
I never saw the need for a DSLR camera. I was perfectly happy with a good quality compact camera, like the Canon SD800IS that I've been shooting with. My thought was, an SLR is so big and bulky that I wouldn't want to bring it with me to take pictures, defeating the purpose of getting one in the first place. All that changed with the birth of our son, when Grandpa offered us an Olympus E-510 DSLR as an "encouragement" to take good pictures of his grandchild.  Many other photography review sites offer very detailed and favorable reviews of this camera, and if you want the nitty-gritty of how this camera works and an explanation of all the features, you should just search for those reviews. I just want to give three reasons why I--previously an ardent anti-SLR user--have now been favorably swayed by the Olympus E-510.
1. The E-510 is one of the smallest and lightest DSLRs currently on the market. Both the 14-42mm and the 40-150mm Zuiko digital lenses that come in the kit are incredibly small and lightweight. Note that with the Four-Thirds standard, you need to double the focal length of the lens when comparing to the typical 35mm lens; thus the 40-150 mm kits lens delivers a field of view comparable to a 80-300mm lens.  Yet even with such a high zoom range, the lens is compact and balanced on the camera, and it doesn't feel like a lead weight when hanging around your neck. You still can't beat the simplicity and portability of a digicam, but the E-510 trumps any digicam in the next area...
2. The picture quality really is a marked improvement over my Canon SD800IS, which is already one of the higher quality digicams out there.  The sharpness of details and color rendition, even when I lowered the resolution of the E-510 to match that of the digicam, was extremely impressive. The kit lenses that come with the E-510 also do an excellent job of avoiding the distortion around the edge of an image that plague my digicam at wide-angles. Whereas I had to spend some time with photo software tweaking pics from a digicam to make them look good, pictures taken with the E-510 looked great direct from the camera, and they looked even better with slight processing. The ability to shoot RAW and do some intensive post-processing is something that you cannot do with any digicam.
3.  When taking pictures of babies and kids, speed is key.  I've missed plenty of shots on my digicam due to the shutter lag, even when I prefocus by holding the shutter button halfway. The E-510 is fast in autofocusing (in good lighting), shutter lag, and it also has an excellent 3fps continuous burst mode. This can make the difference when trying to catch the quick smile or facial expressions of my child. Note that, as other reviewers have mentioned, the E-510 struggles with autofocusing in low light conditions, but you can always resort to manual focus. The camera offers a focus confirmation light in the viewfinder that illuminates even in manual focus mode when you achieve proper focus.
There is much more for me to learn about this camera. But if you're torn between jumping up to a DSLR from a digicam, hopefully these reasons can help you with your decision.