ID: B000NDMADO-R3D2QZX2WZA1VV-A9YPWQ4AGCKER
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dyson-DC21-Stowaway-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A9YPWQ4AGCKER
ReviewerName: Big Rich Rules
Date: February 14, 2008
Helpful: 10 of 11
Rating: 4.0
Title: Dyson C-21 Brush failed 3rd day!
Content:
On my third day of ownership of my Dyson C-21 canister, the motor on the carpet head stopped working by cutting off every 3 to 45 seconds. I called Dyson support.  I was advised that this vacuum is not designed to be used on Berber carpet as it can be pulled into the unit!  I was shocked to say the least.  I was asked what other kinds of floors did I use it on?  I told the support lady that I used it on my kitched linoleum floors and some small tile areas.  She advised me that is what caused the stopping problem, that using the brush on that type of "carpet" was the reason it stopped working and I might have to pay for the repair. I argued that this can not be right as linoleum is not carpet and I did not use the brush for that floor. SHE THEN HUNG UP ON ME!! I called back for a Supervisor, but the 2nd support person did not understand about the BRUSH motor and could not understand why I had a problem if the canister motor was working and sucking air! She could not comprehend that the carpet head brush is powered by a separate electric motor. Eventually I did talk to a customer support Supervisor who offered to send me a new head via UPS shipment after we did a trouble shooting by taking the head apart via phone instructions and she said that she could hear that it did not "sound right" as she could hear me turning it off and on through the phone call. I just ordered $100 worth of accessories thru Amazon so I am very worried about spending so much money on this Dyson Vacuume and suffering through this Dyson vacuume customer support from hell. Wish me luck, I will let you all know how this is resolved in the end.  I wonder what happened to the 5 year warranty I am supposed to have with the first support person.  I had registered it on line and they could have pulled my date of sale so there was no reason to treat me that way from the start! How ever, fair is fair, the unit, when working, really does a fantastic job.  It pulls dirt out of what looks like very clean ivory colored Berber Carpet.  It is very powerful and I wish that my first call to Dyson for help days after purchase was not so bad.  This is why I did not buy the actuall unit ON LINE!  I wanted the option to take it back for a refund if I have to do so.  Do not shop on line for products with bad customer service, do not pay by credit card to companies with poor product support. No problems with Amazon! Amazon.com is great! end