ID: B000U666LG-R1IE4I753JLEGM-A1AGDU3PLWM1O9
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Honeywell-HZ-7200-Oscillating-Digital-Control
ReviewerID: A1AGDU3PLWM1O9
ReviewerName: LSA
Date: December 29, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: good little heater with a 75 inch cord
Content:
This little heater seems to work just fine.  I'm not sure what others are saying regarding the cord being too short.  If you turn the heater over and look under the base, there is a total length of 75 inches of cord wrapped around a built in "cord wrap".  The manual doesn't say they don't recommend an extension cord, they mention if an extension cord is necessary, you must use a heavy duty minimum 14 gauge extension cord minimum 1850 watt; they simply want you to use a "real" extension cord not a wimpy little cheap cord like most people would try to use. After reading the reviews I figured I would  pick up a  15 ft 14 G cord at Lowe's for ten bucks on the way to Best Buy for the heater, but after coming home and unpacking my new Hz-7200 heater, I was surprised to find the cord on my heater measures at 75 inches. So the extension cord is going back. There's more than 6 feet of cord on this heater which is more than practical for me.
The heater works as advertised.  It takes the chill out of the space where I spend a lot time which is my purpose for this supplemental heater.  No space heater is designed to work as well as your furnace, that's ridiculous to even have that expectation.  For supplementing heat in a medium+ size room, this little guy is worth it's weight in gold.  I am using it in a 13 x 16 room and at a medium setting, it has taken the chill out of the room within 10-15 minutes of turning it on. This room has an 8ft wide door wall, and it's 20 degrees outside right now as I type. I'm keeping mine unless it stops working.
BTW, the heater has been running for quite a while now and the cord isn't even warm.  I think if people have issues with the cord becoming hot then they either got a defective unit or they really "do" have an electrical issue with their outlet and maybe they needed to know about that anyway.  This unit is available locally, so if something were to go wrong, I have my original box and I'll return it.  Customer service is very good these days around town.