ID: B000HE8P2O-R20TVWWVA0UKQL-A29ZEV20RCXV1D
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Mr-Heater-Portable-Heaters-F273699
ReviewerID: A29ZEV20RCXV1D
ReviewerName: Anthony J. Lomenzo "Doc Tony"
Date: December 10, 2008
Helpful: 5 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great .. but for a use other than intended! Read on!
Content:
This gadget is worth its weight in gold but my reasons, and perhaps ironically so, are not for the purpose for which the gadget was initially intended, viz., "fuel filtering" but rather to get the Mr. Heater a new lease on life, so to speak, because the original Mr. Heater cylinder 'threads' receptacle simply "refused" [after daily and multiple 1.02 pound propane cylinder usage] to accept further 1.02 pound cylinders without, how to put it, hissing at me because it absolutely would not screw in properly! 
To explain -- it got so that just about every other cylinder simply would not go into the Mr. Heater threaded cylinder receptacle no matter how I fiddled with it [** the 'inner' thread receptacle on the Mr. Heater started to wear with repeated and heavy 1.02 pound cylinder usage] and this became quite vexing sooooo I bought the Mr. Heater "fuel filter" where all I have to do is get the business end of the fuel filter gizmo into the Mr. Heater receptacle 'once' and, voila, the 'other end' of the fuel filter essentially gives me a new set of threads for those 1.02 pound cylinders!
It worked! One drawback tho' even if you buy this gizmo solely for the "fuel filter" reason, once installed, the Mr. Heater is no longer 'flush' with the floor or whatever you have the heater sitting on [** unless you hang the heater up on the wall] because the Mr. Heater is designed so that a 1.02 pound standard propane cylinder 'by itself' makes the thing flush at the bottom but once that 4" [or so] fuel filter is added in the line, so to speak, the Mr. Heater is then lop-sided because the propane cylinder then 'extends' itself due to the fuel filter placement! I get around this by using a square box to sit the heater on it so that the now extended cylinder can stick out on an angle over the box support but be aware that with the filter, you do lose the bottom flush of the heater. On the other hand, with the filter [and thus new cylinder threads], I can at least 'use' the heater versus having just another useless paper-weight! This too! Watch out for those extended hoses which may work into a 20 pound propane tank but will NOT work if you try to use the extended hose with a 1.02 pound cylinder -- the threading is different! And with a 20 pound tank, you may require a regulator as well. In that case, where you only want the extended hose for a 1.02 pound cylinder [for whatever reasons] a trip to a hardware store may be in order for adapting propane-type pipe thread 'reducing' mechanisms. 
Doc Tony
 
REVIEW ADDENDUM: A friend read my review and asked "why would a person use an extended hose if they were using 1.02 pound propane cylinders?" and the answer is this: On the back of the Mr. Heater there are two protruding metal off-sets where with the help of two mounting screws the Mr. Heater can be 'wall mounted' but because putting in these 1.02 pound cylinders can be a little tricky [when the Mr. Heater is wall mounted] or avoiding the step-stool thing to take the heater off the wall and then fiddle with the 1.02 pound cylinder, the extended hose was purchased so that the 1.02 pound cylinder could be easily inserted without touching the heater itself ==but== those extended hoses DO NOT fit 1.02 pound cylinders and are made to go into 20 pound propane tanks where the threading is much larger! Not to mention regulator issues if a 20 pound tank cylinder is used. I have the extended hose myself but I noticed that while one end fits perfectly into the Mr. Heater, the other end of the propane hose was 'too big' for the 1.02 pound cylinder and is made specifically for the 20 pound propane tank. If anyone knows what adapter piece can be fitted on the 'extended hose' to fit the 1.02 pound cylinders, please advise!