ID: B000A3WS84-RHRQGGWOC3F5L-A3ACJYXWDUKGWP
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Video-Playback-Black-Generation
ReviewerID: A3ACJYXWDUKGWP
ReviewerName: musiclover
Date: January 17, 2006
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Its hard to think of a time before iPod... (UPDATE READ)
Content:
(((Ok its been about a month i think since i got my new ipod. I just wanted to say its great but i need ed to buy a new case beacuse i was so scared of scratches. PLEASE BUY A CASE UNLESS YOU DONT MIND SCRATCHES BUY ONE AGENT 18 IS A VERY GOOD ONE GET IT.))) Yes i do own this new ipod first off im sure some of these reviews are people who have just touch or maybe even seen one. Anyway Apple is one of the most inovative companies in the world, in my opinion if it wernt for Microsofts monoploly on the world Apple would be have more product out than Microsoft. THe new iPod is no kids toy first off. They have taken all comforts and putthem into a small little white box which looks great. My last iPod i had was a iPod mini which i enjoyed very much. When i saw the nano come out i was blown away with how small it was and i could not wait to see the new iPod. Know first off when i saw it i really did not like it that much. I thought that the screen was a little too big and it looked unporportioned, NOW that was before i saw how thin it was and before it played video. Now when i saw the videos on the commercials most of thoses are not the actual picture but its taht good. THe screen is like high defination i dont know much about it but it looks stunning. The size is another huge improvment its less than a inch thin it weighs less carrys more and does more why could you not like THIS, (the only thing i could see as a problem is lossing it in some papers and throwing it away or sitting on it) but thastis if a idiot bought it. The battery life was also improved which is nice but videos last about two hours just music is fifteen i think photos are three or four but i cant remember. Still it is very nice to have video even if it does last for only two hours. Itunes is also fair priced i think two bucks for a tv show like lost is a very good price. SOngs of course are just one dollar. All in all Apple has really made everything about the new iPod perfect (for right know wond what they can do next) and has made it user friendly and easy to use. THe price may seem a little high but trust me its worth it. As for the two models the thirty gig and the sixty gig i think in my opinion you shpuld go with the thirty gig its the perfect amount and Apple will make a  new one in two or three years so save it for the next one. Any waythe new Apple iPod is a perfect gift for you or someone else so its a definant 5 star item.