ID: B0000SWAC8-R250UGKOV5FM3E-A3263H2IWCQS52
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL6988D-Oxygen3-Canister-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A3263H2IWCQS52
ReviewerName: K. Rubin "typical consumer"
Date: September 21, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 3
Rating: 2.0
Title: Good product. Worst customer service ever. EVER.
Content:
My oxygen 6988D is one day less than a year old.  It has been an excellent appliance.  However, tHe carpet attachment stopped working last week work.  I called the 800 number in my owners manual and got referred to a local repair shop. They diagnosed the problem as the eletrified wand but told me that I had to call Eletrolux to replace it.  That was where the fun began
THe people at the other end of the 800 number in the owners manual completely disavow having anything to do with vacuums, which are not considered "major" applicances.  Considering what I paid for this I beg to disagree.  They transfer you to another number so you're on th ephone about 10 minutes at this point. The people on the SECOND number tell you they have nothing to do with vacuums.  They give you ANOTHER phone number.  THIS number was for the US headquarters of Aerus Electrolux and THEY really do have nothing to do with this appliance.  However, they were able to give me the phone number of the Electrolux USA facility in Augusta, GA (headquarters?).  THEY too only handle "major appliances" which someohow exclude vacuums.  And so on. Folks I was on the phone over an hour - inlcuding one "hold" of over twenty minutes when the "supervisor" was "personally connecting " me to the "right" department - had. 
So, 65 minutes on the phone, customer service reps are clueless, their supervisors are apparently extremely busy executives as they are not made available.  The ignorance and lack of technology (including an inability to stay with you on the phone to connect you to the next number) are genuinely astounding in this day and age.  I would not only stay away form this appliance but unfortunately from the entire Electrolux brand.
Folks - call this number 800.896.9756. And lots of luck to you