ID: B000NVVDKC-RHF4X047DOLCM-ACMXHJV1KCOSV
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Evolt-Digital-Camera-Stabilization
ReviewerID: ACMXHJV1KCOSV
ReviewerName: wildcatgoal
Date: December 13, 2007
Helpful: 28 of 45
Rating: 3.0
Title: I Returned It... WB Never Gets Right... Dark Pictures... Dull Colors
Content:
A lot of people seem to like this camera.  Why?  I bought this from Amazon.com (great service), took somewhere around 250-300 pictures at all qualities, settings, scenes, lighting, color pallets, etc., using the kit lenses trying to get things to look like I see them with my eyes or better and it just never happened no matter what I did with the settings.  Listen, I'm not a pro but, get this, I took it to a product photographer at work and my neighbor who's a big Canon buff and using their advice, I still couldn't get it to brighten up!  Still, the camera's AUTO mode should take, say, B+/A- grade pictures in the "average" situation but this sucker does not.  Why?!  In fact, no Olympus camera I've had has!  Weird.
The menu makes sense, but it's just so "filled" with options that already have their own button on the camera itself, mixed in with unique settings, that it get's tiresome to flip through.  Speaking of flipping through, the buttons on the menu control worry me.  I've used cameras where the buttons feel like they're right out of the interior of a BMW - tight, quiet, heavy feeling - but these buttons feel like they're right out of a Ford Fiesta (okay, maybe Daewoo).  They are light, overly "clicky," and I feel like they'll pop off someday.
Same goes for the rest of the camera, including the kit lenses.  Now, this thing is light and that is nice.  But camera feels, again, like a Ford Fiesta in terms of build quality vs. other cameras.  It feels hollow to me, as if there's a lot of room in there for "improvement."  No, there are no echos.  We all know what cheap feels like vs. well-built!  The kit lenses don't scope out and in as smoothly as I feel like they should.  Sometimes they snag just a teeny, tiny bit and coupled with the fact that they are just not smooth operating makes me wonder how long they'll last.
The white balance (WB) adjustments on this camera work just like any other SLR I'm sure but, my gosh, all it does is make dull, dark photos go straight to washed-out and super-mega bright!  This isn't a defect model.  I went to Ritz thinking it was and played with their display; same thing.  I could NOT get this camera to take a picture with the right WB so that the image was crisp, clear, properly lit, and all that.  No matter the ISO, contrast setting, sharpness setting, noise filter setting, etc.  At Ritz, we put on a fancier lense for the heck of it, and though things improved (not enough at all though), because the screen is not high-res enough, you couldn't tell if the detail got better other than noticing - due to the expanded ability of a higher apeture lense - that the brightness got more accurate.
Plus sides of this camera are: 
> Image stabilization built in in two modes (horizontal + vertical for most shots and just horizontal for panning)
> 10MP
> Screen size
> Grip and size of unit is perfect (Rebel XT/XTi is horrible)
> Light (but in a bad way to me)
> Takes pictures fast
> Auto focus is accurate and fast (only 3-focus points though)
> And other stuff, but this is a negative review....
You can obviously tell I was just not impressed with this camera!  For $600+ it's just doesn't cut it relative to what it SHOULD be.  I took 10 shots with the Nikon D80 and almost bought it right then and there!  I would have IF it had image stabilization built in and - though I don't believe this does much more than setting the camera down hard - dust removal technology.  I still might but I'm going to explore the Nikon D80, Canon EOS 20D/30D/40D, and the Pentax K10D.  The Rebel XT/XTi is out of the question because the grip isn't bulky enough for my taste.
I bought this camera because I was attracted to the dual lenses and the big feature list.  But, once again, I realized that if you ask for everything, everything presents itself, and you know you aren't paying enough for it, then what you are buying is 2/3rds of what everything could be had you paid what you should have paid for it.  If that makes sense.  Think about it.
Thanks for the read.  Look elsewhere, please.