ID: B000BY52NK-R3ER4YZ6TEU7XT-A3B35K01SYBJ3S
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D200-10-2MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A3B35K01SYBJ3S
ReviewerName: David Day
Date: August 9, 2007
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Review of the Nikon D200
Content:
I would like to start out by saying that Nikon D200 is the finest camera that I have ever owned. I started out my Nikon adventure with the Nikon N70 film camera. I then moved up to the Nikon Cool PIX 950 then 990. Neither of these cameras had removable lenses and were toys. A couple of yeas ago I moved up to the Nikon D100. This is a very fine camera, but is too complex for the average user. 
Out of the box the D200 has evolved in so many ways. Nikon has vastly simplified the camera user interface to where it makes sense. For instance, for general shooting the use can put the camera into the totally automatic shooting mode, "P."  There are just four modes of operation. The first is, "P," which I just mentioned. The second it the aperture preferred, "A," mode. The next is the shutter preferred, "A," mode. The last is the total manual, "M," mode. All of these controls are right on the top of the camera by the right hand along with the E/V control and the two dials that control the aperture and shutter speed.  On the other side are the controls for White Balance, ISO setting and Image Quality settings. 
I use my camera mostly for still life, but have lately been shooting people. In gatherings like picnics under shelters or in rental halls it is advisable to buy the Nikon SB-800 flash.
My first test of this camera was taking some macro photos. I put a few of this on Flickr [...] to demonstrate the camera. These were taken with a Nikon Micro-Nikor 60mm lens and a Sigma 30-200 mm zoom. They are all hand held images and with poor outdoor lighting. 
I have been having difficulties in taking large objects with too little room to shoot. I got a Nikon 18 - 55 mm wide angle zoom which now allows this camera to capture thins like cars that are behind a rope in a single frame. I also want to take pictures of a brand new Victorian carousel in the area. I needed a wider angle to individually photograph each animal without the fence around it. This as well as other Nikon cameras magnify the image size by 1.5 times. My new 18-55 mm lens is actually 27 - 82.5 mm. This was also true for the D100. 
Ergonomically this is an excellent camera. I have extremely painful arthritis in my hands and fingers. I have just shot three events with this camera each even was from one and a half to three hours long. At the end of each shoot I never notice any extra pain from strain. I guess that they place all the dials and buttons in the correct place. I usually use the neck strap to carry the camera around my neck when shooting. I always hold the camera by my sit ready to shoot. It seams to have a very good balance / feel to it. I have not had a single pre-fire / miss-fire yet. However, I wish that they had put the lens mode selector in a different place. I have on two occasions moved the selector from single to manual. I do admit that I tens to gram more camera than I should. For my next test I am planning to try shooting through my microscope. My D100 works well with the microscope I believe that the D200 should work as well. 
I believe that Nikon has a real winner with the D200. In all the ways that I like to use a camera it is working out quite well. If you have had some experience with other type digitals it should be very easy to switch over. If you have lenses form other Nikon cameras you will find that you can still use them. If you want a camera that does nearly everything that the top of the line professional cameras can then this one is a real winner.