ID: B000KJQ1DG-R1U7UIMA4BGSQF-A2LHL3RYUYLCN8
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G-Zoom-Nikkor
ReviewerID: A2LHL3RYUYLCN8
ReviewerName: Martin S. Brown "Marty B"
Date: January 5, 2008
Helpful: 14 of 15
Rating: 3.0
Title: Nice camera, but significant quality issues
Content:
I've now owned my Nikon D40 for a year, and while it is an adequate camera, Nikon's repair service leaves much to be desired. 
I probably fit the Nikon marketing department's ideal consumer profile: I used Nikon 35mm film cameras in the 1970s and 1980s, migrated to point and shoot digitals in the late 1990s, and wanted more creativity and control over my images. I purchased the D40 in December 2006 and used it extensively in a trip to Russia and Portugal this summer. I don't consider myself anything other than an enthusiastic amateur, but like the general quality of the photos I take with the camera. 
What works well: 
In its basic settings, the Nikon is simple to operate. Photos taken with its auto settings come out good, but not spectacular. I often found that shots taken of Orthodox churches in Russia, where there was a great deal of contrast between the building and the background sky needed a fair amount of touchup in Photoshop to make a suitable photograph. People pictures are generally good, and the D40 is small and light enough to take to family gatherings without lugging a huge weight around on my shoulder. The 18-55 lens is a nice one-lens solution for 90% of the photos I take. 
What doesn't work so well:
I'm sure if I took hundreds of photos every week, I'd know the camera settings better than I do. Many of the creative controls that I'd like to use are far from intuitive on Nikon's busy body - lots of buttons, lots of menu choices, none of which are easy to remember or quick to find when the right shot comes into view. If Nikon was attempting to bridge the gap between advanced point and shoot and creative SLR photography, the bridge doesn't quite reach both shores, in my view. 
Build quality has also been a problem with my camera. About a week before my one year warranty ran out, my camera stopped taking pictures except under the brightest situations. The shutter simply would not fire, no matter whether I was using the built-in or an external SB600 flash, the 18-55 lens or a 55-200 lens. I sent the camera and lens to Nikon around Thanksgiving and tried to decipher the cryptic messages they left on their service center website. After three weeks, they sent back the camera without my lens. Messages sent to Nikon would take days for a response to return IF I got a reply at all. Today, my lens is still in their shop, waiting for parts six weeks after sending it to them. How Nikon can take six weeks to repair a lens is beyond my ability to understand. I had considered upgrading to the D80 before this lens issue occurred, an idea I've abandoned now. 
One other reviewer here commented on Nikon's aggressive pricing, and I agree, on the surface, they have a nice camera. But for the money, I wish I had abandoned my Nikon loyalty and bought a slightly more expensive and reliable Canon. I won't make this mistake again.