ID: B00004R936-R2S9Z82DB0H1V6-A2IXA0SK3PQIRU
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Melitta-MEMB1B-10-Cup-Coffeemaker-Black
ReviewerID: A2IXA0SK3PQIRU
ReviewerName: A. Murphy
Date: November 28, 2004
Helpful: 13 of 13
Rating: 4.0
Title: Best Bang for the Buck!
Content:
I consider myself a bit of a coffee snob.  Three years ago, I purchased the Melitta Mill & Brew because most of our guests did not appreciate the robustness of our French-press-prepared coffee.  We liked the Mill & Brew so much that we purchased two more to give as Christmas presents!  Now, three years later, our coffee maker still makes great coffee, though it's a bit worse for wear.  As other reviewers have indicated, the latch on the lid is very prone to breakage.  Ours broke, as did one of the others.  Only one of the machines needed replacement, but that was due largely in part to extensive use and improper care.  We replaced it with a FOURTH Mill & Brew purchase!  Since our initial purchase, Melitta has offered a model with a stainless carafe (the fourth purchase).  This is a fantastic feature that keeps coffee warm without "cooking" it on a warming plate.  Even though there's life left in my machine, I'm considering purchasing this model now simply to free-up the counter space taken up by a separate carafe.
Yes, there are the MINOR inconveniences of noise and cleaning to consider with this coffee maker.  However, ANY coffee grinder is going to make noise!  It's the 15-second price you pay for superior coffee!  And as far as cleaning... again, removing the basket and basket holder for a quick empty/soap/rinse is a small price to pay for good coffee.  (It's either that or clean a separate grinder!)  Lastly, be sure not to pour too quickly from the glass coffee pot, or you will have to wipe-up your counter.  At $53.95, the Melitta Mill & Brew is VERY reasonably priced, and offers more than any other coffee maker in its class and beyond.  If you want the best tasting coffee possible, use a French press.  If you want great coffee with the one-step convenience of a complete coffee system, get the Melitta Mill & Brew!  
 
EXTRA: Tips for great tasting coffee: 
(1) Purchase your beans fresh and/or vacuum packed, and try to use them within 2-3 weeks.  (Better yet - learn to roast your own!)  Coffee beans lose a large percentage of their flavor after only a few days; ground coffee loses flavor much more quickly.  (Some specialty roaster/retailers are required to throw away unsold beans after 14 days.)  
(2) Store beans in an airtight container, at room temperature.  NEVER store them in the fridge or freezer!  It compromises the flavor by breaking down the oils and picking up tastes from other foods. 
(3) For optimum flavor, grind your beans right before brewing.  (This is why the Melitta Mill & Brew is so handy.  For the record, a burr grinder is superior to a blade grinder.  However, only the Capresso Coffee Team Luxe offers built-in burr grinding - to the tune of $199.99.  No stainless carafe, though.)  
(4) Use fresh, cool, filtered water for brewing.  (Spring water is the best!)  It tastes better, and won't leave mineral deposits in your coffee maker that can drastically slow down the brewing cycle.
(5) Never boil or overheat your coffee.  The perfect brewing temperature for coffee is 205-degrees.  Anything higher begins to taint the flavor.  
(6) Pour your coffee into a thermal carafe to keep it warm.  Keeping it on a warming plate "cooks" it, turning it muddy and making it taste "burnt."  
(7) ENJOY!