ID: B000SKQOTI-R2JMTHSY4PV87G-A141WA8S3E4QM2
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-Digital-Reduction-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A141WA8S3E4QM2
ReviewerName: J Anthony "tinglassman"
Date: January 16, 2008
Helpful: 19 of 19
Rating: 5.0
Title: Pentax: Always the Best!
Content:
If you're an avid photographer (which means you love to take photos) or you're new to digital SLRs and you're ready to make the move to a digital SLR, then the Pentax K100D Super is a top choice. 
For those use to operating a typical 35mm film SLR, the switch to digital is fairly easy.  I've been a Pentax guy for over 20 years: the old K1000 being one of my favorite standard SLRs, along with the newer ZX50.  If you're not use to using a typical SLR and have been using any of the simple point-and-shoot digital cameras out there, don't worry, trust yourself, you can adapt and it can be really exhilarating.  Using an SLR, whether 35mm or digital, offers so much more when taking pictures.
You may be one of those who are debating with yourself: Pentax, Canon or Nikon?  Then you find yourself reading too many publication reviews (and more, like posts here on Amazon) and you lean one way, then the next, and finally start getting crazy.  Pure & simple, all three manufacturers make excellent cameras: including digital SLRs!  I think anyone who is involved with photography will agree.  However, I've used Canon's & Nikons, and Pentax has always ended up being my #1 choice.
When looking for a camera, I feel your #1 consideration should be: how much photography do you do?  If you're like me; a traveler, a hobbyist, and find yourself shooting a lot of photos then you're more apt to invest in a good camera.  The #2 consideration is cost.  Without a doubt, the Pentax K100D Super results in one of the best Digital SLRs out there for the money; a fact all publication reviews, that I respect, agree on.
Many publication reviews often compare the K100D Super to the Nikon & Cannon, and one of the most consistent factors noted is while Canon & Nikon digitals are sporting 10 megapixels, the K100D Super only has 6.5 megapixel.  I say, what ever.  The reality is, that 10 megapixels can be a concern if you're trying to print pictures the size of posters, and quite simply most people aren't.  The reality is most folks will print normal size photos, and even up to 8.5x11 or slightly larger.  The Pentax shoots in RAW & JPEG, the RAW features allows for manipulation, using any descent photo software, to larger sizes photos including 15x17.5
I've used my K100D Super on a recent trip to Point Reyes State Park, here in the Bay Area.  I was sure to shoot photos of sand on the beach: personal and really up close to see individual grains of sand.  I took photos of the oysters we had, reflections of drift wood on still salt water ponds, a jelly fish (some 30 feet away), the crashing waves, any possible deviation of shots I could think of, and I was purely amazed at the K100D Super's performance & quality!  I used both the Auto setting and then played with the other settings.
While there are many great features on the Pentax, and easy read up is available on-line, let me highlight those I would note to support my recommendation:
Cost:  This camera is the best value & cost for a camera of this quality.  Again, this is stated time and time again in publication & on-line reviews.
Body:  The body of the K100D Super is solid! It's a great combination of polycarbonate & stainless steel housing.  It's not the cheapo plastic like other cameras.
Anti-shake:  This alone, is one serious note to consider.  Pentax puts their anti-shake in the camera body, unlike Nikon & Canon who put it in their lenses, thus one reason why Canon & Nikon lens cost more in the long run.  Now, seeing the error in their ways, I've read Nikon & Canon are racing like mad dogs to fall in line with Pentax's lead.
Pentax Lenses:  Any Pentax lens ever made will work on the K100D Super.  This is where Pentax has shined for years.  Those of us with older lenses can just pop them right onto the K100D Super's body (in fact, most Pentax SLR cameras allow for this).  If you go to a garage sale or flea market and find a great old Pentax lens, it's will fit the K100D Super.  And since this is the case, all Pentax lenses benefit from the anti-shake in the camera.  Better yet, digital lenses are different than film lenses.  Film lenses are superior in many ways to digital lenses.  Using an older Pentax film lens on the digital body enhances the quality of the photo, an added benefit to the Pentax crowd.
And, the K100D Super is already set to accept the newest generation of Pentax lenses (SDM lenses) coming out this year.
Dust Removal System:  The Pentax has an internal anti-dust shake device that removes any dust that may be present.
Auto/Manual: Auto Picture Mode, Scene Modes & Manual.  You can easily go between using the Auto mode of the camera or fall back on your own experience of doing things manually using the AV, TV, Manual and so on.
Memory Card:  the K100D Super uses SD Cards, but typical Pentax (thinking ahead), the camera will also accept the newer SDHC cards.
Batteries:  There are several batteries the camera can utilize:  rechargeable, Lithium & standard AA+.  This is a benefit as you're not limited to one manufacturer's battery. 
I took this camera out of the box, DID NOT READ ANYTHING - LITERALLY, put in the batteries, put in an SD Card, turned it on, set the date, turned it off and walked out the door to Point Reyes.  Then, I turned it on and starting shooting pictures.  It was that easy (and yes, I plan to read the manual).  I wish Amazon let you post photos on a review.
This is a solid pick for me and others. Hope this helps.