ID: B000AQPMHA-R1XDDUQBPDBCZ-ABAHKMFEHT8K1
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Gourmet-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: ABAHKMFEHT8K1
ReviewerName: G. Balmes "Aman4allseasons"
Date: April 13, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Fantastic Brewing System
Content:
I'm single and for years I have made coffee in a conventional " coffee  maker". My latest machine which ground coffee was ok only problem was it has a flat bottom basket for the grounds and for the little amount of coffee I brew in the morning, the coffee hardly covered the entire bottom of the basket. Also, remember how when you first open a can of coffee and that wounder aroma you first notice but then drops rapidly the more times you open and close the can till there is hardly any aroma left. Oxygen is one of coffee's worst enemies along with time. BTW I also read that you should never purchase the bulk coffee in the bins in a grocery store reason being the exposure to light and one never knows how long that coffee has been in the bins and that coffee is usually stale So I decided I needed a change and read all the reviews here on amazon and was very impressed by what you reviewers had written. I decided on either the B40 or B60 model so I went on an online auction site and was the top bidder on the B40 it was New In Box NIB never opened and had the complementary 18 sample box. I paid just less than $60.00. My brewer has the two cup size option.
At first I thought these single brewing systems were more of a fad than a practicability but reassessing my situation it made perfective sense so I decided to make the plunge and buy one. when my unit arrived it had a simple quick instruction manual. I followed the instruction until step # 8 in the SET UP section said "Press the flashing blue small mug Button. Well both of my small and large mug buttons never flashed, just stayed on. after about 5 min. I lifted the handle and close it and that seemed to rectify the situation and then the small mug button flashed. So if this same anomaly occur during your set up just lift the handle and close and it should reset itself.
There have been some negative reviews about how the B40 vibrates so much it makes other objects dance around that are close to it during brewing. Though I do not mean to discount other reviewers experiences, mine unit hardly makes a sound; perhaps it is slightly louder the the compressor on my refrigerator but hardly annoying. My Nespresso C100 makes more noise than the Keurig. Perhaps the others had an older design of the B40 or they may have had a defective unit.
The features I like on the B40 are of course the two mug size's, Heating light, De-scale light and most of all the ADD Water light. Which I wish my Nespresso had. Also the Water Reservoir is on the left side ( facing you). The only issue I can think of is you may have to move your unit forward to the edge of the counter if you have cabinets up above. 
Other than that, so not to be redundant, I don't think I have much to add to what earlier reviewers have already written just I'm really please with my B40 and highly recommend it and I'm anxious to try the many flavor's and roasts that are available in the K-cups