ID: B00005MF99-R23C65F1ARU3DL-AWGAHK04B1SO4
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-DCM2500W-SmartBrew-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: AWGAHK04B1SO4
ReviewerName: butterfly
Date: January 28, 2004
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 1.0
Title: Quit Working after 2 Months
Content:
I purchased this item after reading a consumer report on easy to use coffeemakers. This item was very easy to use; however, there were a few things I did NOT like. 1. I like cream in my coffee and the heating pad did not keep the coffee at a warm enough temperature for me to add my milk. I would have to warm it up some more in the microwave. 2. The lid on the top of the coffeemaker was not tight &amp; did not keep in the steam while brewing. It made a lot of noise &amp; according to the manual, much sputtering is a sign that it needs cleaning. However, it sputtered &amp; excessively steamed from the very start, so cleanliness was not the problem. 3. The design of the carafe made it difficult to completely empty the carafe. Water always got stuck around the plastic attachment around rim of the carafe. This also made the carafe difficult to clean as coffee also would get stuck in this same area. 4. And finally, this coffeemaker just plain stopped working after less than 2 months. One morning i went to make coffee &amp; i pushed 'on' and the light came on but nothing else happened. I tried many many many times after this, unplugging &amp; replugging, plugging into a different outlet, all with the same result. 'On' light but no coffee. The heating pad did not even activate. 
  
 One thing to keep in mind when purchasing at Target, they do not allow you to return used &amp; opened items. Even if they stopped working. The woman at customer service made an exception for me &amp; I purchased instead the 12-cup, programmable Mr. Coffee maker. So far, after 1 week, I am Very pleased. Coffee is very hot, no annoying plastic attachment around the rim of carafe and no crazy steaming &amp; crazy sputtering.