ID: B000N22JY0-R3EML2P0HW1C1K-AM7J74INGF4U5
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Lasko-5521-Ceramic-Tower-Heater
ReviewerID: AM7J74INGF4U5
ReviewerName: Phyllis A. Gauker
Date: November 23, 2008
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Heated a spa room
Content:
I had a particular heating problem. I have a spa room built outside the house over an old cement patio about 6 feet from my back door, so it does not have access to the central heat. The room is not insulated, and has about 1/3 glass windows so I can look out into the yard while in the tub. I'm telling you all this so you will understand that the area is not easily heated. It is used for only short periods of time, so I didn't want to heat it 24/7. Without heating, the room is probably only 4 degrees warmer than the outdoor temperature. 
In very cold weather, without a supplemental source of heat, I simply cannot abide undressing in 40° or less, even if the spa itself is nice and warm.  So I bought a series of inexpensive heaters, none of which would do anything except heat the few feet around the heater. Then I saw the Laslo which said it had a "push" system to get the heat into the room. Having no idea what the "push" entailed, I bought it, knowing I could return this heater, as I'd done with the previous two, if it did not fill my needs.  But I did not need to return it. It works for my purpose. 
The unit is attractive, is tall and narrow so can fit into a small area, yet throw out heat sufficient to allow me to undress, use the spa, and re-dress in comfort. Then I turn it off.  (I preheat the room easily using the digital brightly lit, large LCD thermostat which shows the ambient temperature, and moves up as the room heats. This a.m. the room started at 43° and now, after 15 minutes, it is up to 50° already.  If I open the lid of the spa it will heat even more rapidly, of course). The room contains 3 exercise machines, also, so we can now exercise in comfort, as well.  I have no need for the remote control which comes with the unit since I'm either in water or on a machine while using it.
I highly recommend this heater.