ID: B000BP50AY-R2665H6UQB19QD-AQH4JK4MF38LL
Category: MP3Players
Product: SanDisk-Sansa-m240-Player-Silver
ReviewerID: AQH4JK4MF38LL
ReviewerName: Dr. Paul A. Laughlin
Date: August 9, 2006
Helpful: 10 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great little player!
Content:
This is the sixth .mp3 player in our household.  Between the four of us, we have a Zen Nomad 60 Gb (me) and 40Gb (my son), a Zen Nano 1 Gb (me), an iPod Nano (wife), and iPod 30Gb (step-daughter).
The fairest comparison, of course, is between this SanDisk and the Zen Nano: both are 1Gb in capacity, both run on 1 AAA battery, and both load nicely via copy-and-paste in Windows Explorer.  The SanDisk is roughly twice as big as the Zen Nano physically, but still quite small; and has a built-in FM radio (as does the Zen Nano Plus).  The larger size makes the SanDisk easier to use, and as its best feature, it has a much larger. more informative, and easier-to-read display. It also has a much more substantial battery cover than the Zen Nano's little one-tooth wonder (its worst feature).
Other reviewers have called the Sandisk a battery-eater. Mine operated for three days of nearly constant waking-hour use on a single battery, just as my Zen Nano does.  (I might suggest that top-grade alkalines be used.  They last longer and are cheaper in the long run.)  Some have claimed that the SanDisk filled up awfully quickly. Well, I listen mostly to classic jazz, and I can get between 16 and 18 albums (I'm old) on it at a time.  Some reviewers mention the "cheesy" case provided along with an arm strap.  I don't intend to use the arm strap (not my style), but the heavy clear soft plastic case seems well-enough made, and nicely protects my player from my pocket change.
Don't get me wrong: I still love my sleek little Zen Nano, and will probably use it on long walks in which I just play through albums without having to change from one folder or file to another.  If I had to choose between the two, however, or could afford only one small player, I would go with the SanDisk hands down.  Bottom line: it's a great little player and a bargain to boot.