ID: B000JO7T7E-RNH9YUBKV3UKG-
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Green-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: 
ReviewerName: 
Date: January 18, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: iPod Nano 3rd Gen. Video
Content:
This is a great mp3 player first off its so simple to use i mean all you do for iTunes is drag songs to the iPod its that easy. Heres some info about the new iPod. First off you need iTunes 7.4 or later for this iPod to work on your computer and for windows you need XP or Vista. Then their are two ways in which you can get your music one you can download songs from the iTunes store which if you want to fill your iPod up with 4 gigs of music would be very hard with just buying songs for a dollar each because it would be incredibly expensive(that is unless you download movies then you will fill it up quick) or the more useful solution is that you could rip your CD'S because this is free and you can rip the CD"s in even higher format than the iTunes store provides. So then you go out to the store and get this cool iPod and now you don't know what to do with it. First update your iTunes if you haven't already done that and then once you do that if you only have downloaded songs off the store than if you want rip your CDS or if you just want a few songs and maybe a TV episode this is very simple to do, First install your iPod to the computer this was very simple to do than you can choose wether or not to have your iPod sync automaticly or what i prefer having it sync mannually. Then the iPod will show up under devices in iTunes so than all you simply to do is drag the songs/videos onto your iPod. Than what you have to do with ejecting it is that you have to press eject if you don't than it can damage your iPod. But what about the other cool features that come with it too like, Games, Notes, Calander, Contacts etc. Well this is easy to do with games warning if you have old versions of the games you have to RE DOWNLOAD them so if you spent a lot of money on games your out of luck because you have to re download them! But the iPod already comes with good games. To sync contacts this is very easy all you do is make the contacts on your computer(MACINTOSH) and then if you go to contacts on iPod info on iTunes you then just click on sync and there you go no more forgetting anyones phone number anymore. For notes its harder to sync and it took me a while to figure it out but what you do is you go to finder(hint im saying mac examples because i use mac with it) anyways you go to finder and the iPod should appear so you then click on it and then you will see notes on their well you first have to drag a document to the iPod than you have to then drag the document into the notes folder and their you then have it on your ipod. For calenders i haven't used that yet so i dont know. Also for photos you simply sync them from iPhoto on iTunes. The iPod really comes with 3.63 GB because the games take up over 70 MB!!! Hint this iPod does not play WAV!! does not i repeat dosent, i'm pretty sure also that this thing only plays MP3 and MP4 because i dont think and other music formats would work so if they are in another format you have to convert them to MP3, i know only MP4 works with video on this iPod any other video format does not work but all movies/music from the iTunes store is all in MP3 and MP4. One thing that is kind of confusing is after the iPod is playing for like 2 minutes it goes in playback mode that shows the clock and battery life but the battery life is almost always lower(sometimes its right) so it can be confusing when you have to charge it or not being that since its a lithium ion battery you have to be careful on how much you charge because eventually the battery will start to wear out. But also the screen quaility is just amazing ecspecially for movies i know i've heard it before at how tiny the screen is for movies well its not that much smaller than the iPod Video Screen!!! Also sometimes after you eject it from the computer it stalls a little bit after but then goes to menu but if it stalls for like more than 5 minutes heres what you do whenever your iPod is frozen. Press down on the menu and center button at the same time and then your iPod will re boot and it dosent delete songs or anything!!! all in all this is a great iPod good for anyone who wants something to use on the go!!!
Also since this is flash memory you can delte songs and unlike with hard drives you cant and plus this dosent skip like hard drive based mp3 players because this is flash memory and it dosent skip a GREAT GREAT DEAL!!!!
EXCELENT!!!
good job apple!!!