ID: B000VDQ38E-R3RJ794QCP7RMC-A1MC04RAVMYA7E
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1MC04RAVMYA7E
ReviewerName: Daddy Derek
Date: March 8, 2008
Helpful: 14 of 14
Rating: 3.0
Title: Double edge sword
Content:
We purchased this vacuum a few months ago when our hoover was giving us problems.  We have a 7 month baby crawling around and I was tired of him getting dog hair (australian shepherd/border collie mix) all over his drooling chin.  After reading the reviews here, Target.com, and Bestbuy.com, I was sure this vacuum was perfect for our family's home.  Right out of the box the Bissell was great.  It had major suction and I was amazed at the amount of stuff appearing in the canister - it made me a bit upset to think how much my hoover had been missing.  The vacuum was so strong in fact, it was slightly pulling my arm along.
However, this all came at a price.  The "easy empty" canister was a huge PITA to empty.  When the locking lever is released and I pull the canister out, dust and hair goes flying.  While vacuuming, the hair and dust clumps spin like a cyclone inside the container.  I'm guessing this builds up static because when I go to empty, it flys and clings to anything within reach (I posted pix here so you could see what I was talking about).
Today, a few months after purchase, I'm still happy with how much the vacuum is sucking up.  I've learned to wash off the foam filter and shake off the HEPA filter to keep suction strong.  Emptying the canister is still very messy - so much so, my wife refuses to vacuum and it has become my "job."
Bottom line:
I'd buy this vacuum again, but I'm not jumping up and down like it's made of gold.
Good:
1. suction
2. tools (including pet hair catcher on the front of vacuum)
3. price
Not so Good:
1. the hose is not very flexible or long which leads to the vacuum tipping if stretched (say 3-4 feet / maybe 3-4 stairs)
2. the vacuum's spinning brush doesn't stop when the handle is upright and you're trying to use the tools - if left to long I'm thinking it would pull up my carpet
3. "easy empty" canister is extremely messy
I'd write more, but the baby is waking up and my daughter is begging me for lunch - feel free to email me with questions at:
mister_mr_d@hotmail.com