ID: B000A33B1C-R2TBWTA7ZV5LW4-AVYB446M0E2KI
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Delonghi-TRD0715T-Safe-Oil-Filled-Radiator
ReviewerID: AVYB446M0E2KI
ReviewerName: Tricia Chaves "triciachaves.blogspot.com"
Date: January 8, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Toasty but smelly
Content:
Fear of high gas prices caused my husband and I to buy this space heater for our new home.  We haven't received an electric or gas bill since we bought it, so I don't know how cost effective the space heater is but I can clearly see what I like and don't like about how it works:
Our bedroom is an average size (9x13) and the heater has the potential to get the room uncomfortably hot at the highest setting.  There is a high, medium and low setting for the temperature.  
In our living room, however, this space heater isn't the best fit (the room is larger and opens to the dining room which opens to our kitchen).  There is no "blower" on the heater that really pushes the heat towards you, it's more of a soft flow of air upward from the unit through the top vents.  If you are planning to use this in a room that will be closed off from the rest of the house it's awesome, if you're in a bigger area, I'd go for a model with a fan that blows heat towards you like this one Holmes Energy-Efficient Heater Fan - HEH8001-U1.
The other problem we've noticed is the odor of oil fumes after long use at a high setting.  I found that I hardly notice it while I'm actually sitting in the room with the machine, but it's a very obvious smell if I leave the room for "fresh air" and come back.  Kind of scary, actually!
The outside of the heater is warm to the touch but won't burn you like a stove would.  But I think it gets warm enough to the point that I wouldn't leave it where a kid or pet would touch it.
The heater is typically quiet but makes some tick-tick, pop-pop noises when it's first heating up.  Very intermittent and temporary, I believe it's because the oil is actually heating up like it would in your deep fryer.
I'm not dissatisfied with the heater but would definitely search for an oil-free model if I was shopping for another space heater in the future.