ID: B000I3ZCWU-RTM6I00UN87ME-AXUH79YHCPE1U
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-10-1MP-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: AXUH79YHCPE1U
ReviewerName: Anjou
Date: December 22, 2007
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great value and still so versatile!
Content:
Canon has thought out this camera well and put a good
collection of useful features from its higher end DSLRs in this
model. Consequently, this camera has all the features that would keep
a budding photographer fulfilled for quite some time. In addition, the
great price allows you to spend more on good quality lenses, bounce
flash, and other accessories.
The useful features:
- Excellent picture taking: low noise sensor, ISO 1600 is quite usable. Fast
  startup: camera is ready to shoot almost instantly at the press of
  the shutter. Fast drive: 3 frames per second. With an Extreme III CF
  card, one can shoot 27 shots before the camera becomes busy.
- Great user interface: One key access to white balance, ISO,
  auto-focus modes, metering, drive, and AF points. These are all so nicely
  laid out in the back of the camera. The grip is fine but could be a
  bit more rounded. Light and compact.
- Ability to separate focus and exposure buttons with CF4 custom
  function. This feature is poorly explained in the manual, but when
  used with AI Servo AF, it makes the camera do less work and helps
  you take great pictures. I also use custom white balance a lot. RGB
  histogram, overblown pixel highlights, mirror lockup to prevent
  camera shake are other useful functions.
The body is one quarter or even one-fifth of the picture taking
apparatus. The second quarter is a good lens (spend as much on a lens
as you will on the body), and half is your own dedication and skills
in photography. Invest in a bounce flash like speedlite 430ex or you
will be stuck taking pictures at home at ISO 1600. Buy some
photography books like Understanding Exposure.
Happy picture taking with this excellent body!