ID: B000VDQ38E-RCG8KLMLMTIDY-A2M0W5GCYTXV67
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A2M0W5GCYTXV67
ReviewerName: BK "BK"
Date: November 23, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Amazed...
Content:
Bought the Bissel 3920 Pet Hair Eraser yesterday.  We have light tan, medium shag carpets and a black dog that sheds profusely.  We did a LOT of research on vacuums before purchasing.  Heard great things about this vacuum, so we figured, at $150, what the heck - that's not too expensive.  Putting together was easy and when we turned it on, I have to say, we didn't think it was as loud as everyone makes it to be.  This thing picked up every fiber of hair on our floor and so much more!  I actually got down and looked up close and it really did get all the hair.  The only negative, I have to say, is that if you don't empty the canister often enough (and it WILL fill up with all kinds of dirt), when you pull the canister out, it will spill some dust on the vacuum.  It's no biggie though, we learned to empty the canister more frequently, and the canister is very, very easy compared to others.  Carpets looked like they did when they were new - unbelievable.  It is a bit heavy, but the long hose went up at least 12' of stairs.  We went to a few stores to check it out and they all said that it was suitable for carpet only because there is another Bissell pet (I'm assuming newer) that ws about $20 more and was marked as cleaning ALL FLOORS.  Well, the 3920 has settings for all floors (duh - it's a vacuum) and picked up hair and dirt off tile, hardwood, and linoleum excellently, so no worries there.  The new one did have a removable canister which was nice.  But it was actually even heavier and didn't have the hair eraser tool in front of the head unit.  Anyway, long story short, this is an excellent vacuum with great attachments, super sucking power, and I recommend it to anyone that has pets.  The long hose & attachments work great for the car too, you know how hard it is to get all that hair out out of the rear cargo and seats!