ID: B00009RAVP-R2CC4JWQ8H0JC-AFA5N338FES89
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Soleus-Air-MS-09-Oscillating-Radiant
ReviewerID: AFA5N338FES89
ReviewerName: Diffractionlimit "Mike"
Date: November 16, 2007
Helpful: 17 of 17
Rating: 5.0
Title: Winter warmth in a small energy-saving  way
Content:
I recommend this heater, especially if want to stay toasty warm while saving energy. With energy costs going up dramatically this winter, one real way of saving money is to heat the area you are in, rather than the entire house. In the old days, the wood stove would heat the central area of the house, and the bedrooms would be bone cold and one would be buried under a pile of blankets at night. This might not be our favorite thing, but was wise in terms of energy use (and saved a lot of wood-chopping!).
This heater would allow one to keep the temperature of the home much cooler, while staying nice and warm while reading, watching TV, working at the computer, etc. Another advantage to the heater is where the people in the home have different personal "thermostats". Some Nordic types like to be cool all the time and even sleep with a window open every night. Others like to be toasty warm all the time, seemingly lacking the inner furnace that keeps others comfortable in relatively cool (60-65°) household winter temperatures. In addition, as people age, some want to be even warmer - as is often the case in nursing homes - and I know of those who keep their winter house temperature at 85° on the coldest of days. Unbelievable to me both in terms of energy cost and energy waste.
The bottom line: this heater will save you money, and might help household relationships by allowing those who want to be toasty warm all the time to be so, while allowing others who prefer to be cool,  to be comfortable as well. 
Read the directions and keep them. When the heater trips off, which can happen from movement or if it is knocked over, etc., it will not come back on until it has cooled, which can take 10 minutes. This is a wise safeguard for this and any electric heater, as they do produce warmth, and one must use common sense in using them. Another example: one should always use a heavy-duty extension cord with electric heaters, which is mentioned in the manual. All easy to do, but important to be aware of in these days of central heating, when many are unfamiliar with space heaters and do not take the time to read the directions. It is always sad to hear of house fires, carbon monoxide poisoning, etc., during the holiday season, as people forget basic safety matters in their desire to be warm.