ID: B000FT1XZW-R1XG4616J7W50L-A3G6TWJD71R9W9
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-TRH0715-Filled-Radiator-Heater
ReviewerID: A3G6TWJD71R9W9
ReviewerName: Bob
Date: March 1, 2009
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: Safe to use
Content:
Have owned a heater just like this one for over five years now. It will not burn you, or a child, but gets very warm. With a box fan running quietly on low next to it to keep air moving over it, can keep three rooms relatively warm all night in coastal NC with one of these. It will drop into the teens here sometimes at night. 
Feel safe with this heater for it would be hard to accidentally start a fire with it. Just ordered another one for I am going to let my LP gas provider have their tank back as soon as I use most of the fuel in it. Then, purchase my own LP tank. It's cheaper to use this along with my heat pump instead of just the heat pump alone. With LP heat for backup, Stay cozy no matter how cold it gets or if the power grid should fail. 
Update: Do not understand the negative reviews outlining so many problems. Received my second oil filled heater, tested it for many hours and found it to work fine just like the one I have been using for many years now. Have owned many types of electric heaters. Like these oil filled units the best. Do not mind leaving my home with one running. It has an overload/high temp automatic safety shutoff for safety. 
Feburary 13, 2010: Both of my electric oil filled heaters are working fine as usual. Have had no problems at all with either of them. You may be able to find this heater or one very much like it for around $35. plus tax locally- if you look around a little. It's currently snowing outside tonight. Am using nothing but my two oil filled electric heaters with fans running quietly next to them to keep my home cozy- have shorts on. Propane prices are currently right high around here. Have plenty of propane gas on hand if the power grid should fail. My older model heat pump is not all that energy efficient. Like these cozy and quiet little heaters. Got another electric bill today. It was much lower than I thought it would be using these heaters with the thermostat on them set at a reasonable level.