ID: B000K36ER0-R1VS8ESE6G2XKL-A3TP31S61PPE3G
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Mr-Coffee-FTX49-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3TP31S61PPE3G
ReviewerName: AlexJouJou
Date: May 31, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 3.0
Title: Does dual duty as a nightlight or homing beacon and leaks but still brewing after 1 year
Content:
So what we have here is my insistence that all my kitchen appliances be red and fairly inexpensive. Thus this Mr. Coffee unit got dumped into my shopping cart last year. This coffee maker has numerous problems but with some careful planning as long as it doesn't quit you can make it work for you. 
First, the carafe leaks at the top under the rim. No problem--just keep a towel handy and once you've poured the water in the unit *very* carefully (keeping it absolutlely level) bring the pot to the sink and rotate/tip it so all the water comes out here and doesn't leak onto your counter. Then use a towel to wipe it dry, place it in its brewing spot on the hotplate and you are good to go.
Next, make sure you put the coffee pot on a cutting board or other surface--this will allow you to catch the leaks from underneath and the top when the water drips down without staining your countertop. As an added convenience the handle on the cutting board can be used to pull the unit out to fill the water. Very handy!
Lastly, make sure you put in twice as much water as you think you need but 1/2 the coffee grounds needed for that amount of coffee--because somehow between the pouring of the water and the finished cup of coffee about 35-50% of the water will go MIA. Where it goes remains a myster and even my want-to-be-a-detective 12 year old can't figure out where it could be going. We'll just consider that the 8th wonder o.k.?
So, after all that (what's a little work after all...for my java) you should be in receipt of a perfectly well brewed cup of coffee. No problem.
Seriously---best look elsewhere. Unless you are addicted to red appliances and are broke--if that's he case don't forget if you position it by a window it could function as a homing beacon for your spouse in the dark or rain OR as a great nightlight for your child who needs to make that middle of the night potty run--yes folks the lighted clock is really great but I would recommend you cover your eyes and, much like the sun, do not look at it directly. It must be some military patented thing meant for the troops or something.