ID: B0001LFRIS-R3HLXZUVXPY6FJ-A2XRMQA6PJ5ZJ8
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: D70-Digital-Camera-Body-Only
ReviewerID: A2XRMQA6PJ5ZJ8
ReviewerName: Roger J. Buffington
Date: April 3, 2004
Helpful: 103 of 109
Rating: 5.0
Title: Want a digital SLR?  This is the one to get!
Content:
I have a Nikon D100 and love it.  But if I were in the market today, the D70 would be the one I selected.  At $999 (body only) this is absolutely an outrageous bargain, and Nikon has plainly positioned this camera price/feature-wise to dominate the market.This camera and others like it herald the death of film.  This camera will produce breathtakingly good images and you don't have to pay to develop them before you view them.  Just take your CF card and attach it to a reader and you can review the pictures on your personal computer.  Then select the ones you want and print them yourself (good printers are pretty cheap these days) or submit them on-line to any number of professional printing houses who will mail you wonderful prints in a day or two.  And you can process the images with any of several superb (and inexpensive) programs giving you a &quot;digital darkroom&quot; capability that far exceeds what an expensive and messy film darkroom could achieve with film.  The digital darkroom is a reality!The D70 has all of the features that a serious amateur (and even a pro, IMHO) will want.  First the basics: this camera will use all of the Nikon D and G autofocus lenses.  Put in a 512MB CF card and it will take 51 RAW pix or several hundred JPEG pix, depending on your setting.  These 6 Megapixel pictures are indistinguishable from film for essentially all purposes.  What's not to like?The D70 has improved Through-The-Lens metering, and improved buffering.  This means that your images will likely be perfectly exposed each time.  It also means that you can take many pictures in rapid sequence, and the camera will be able to keep up with you.  Although the D70 is positioned slightly below the D100, in reality Nikon chose to improve these features somewhat over the D100!  The D70 is not a &quot;crippled&quot; D100 the way the Canon Digital Rebel is a crippled Canon 10D (Canon's fine competing product to the D100).  Although the D100 has some features that the D70 lacks, the D70 shows that Nikon has learned from the comments and requests of D100 owners by providing a bigger and faster buffer allowing users to take pictures in rapid-fire sequence.Although the D70 is somewhat lighter than the D100, it is solidly built, and I like the heft and feel of the camera--it does not feel flimsy.  It is light but solid.  The menus are intelligently set out, and after an hour or so, most users will no longer need the manual.The D70 is a winner, and the only problem that prospective buyers will have with it is finding one.