ID: B000GLHVQE-R3I6DRAYOJOR3Z-A37MZVDP5KSXJR
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Dimplex-CS1205-Compact-Electric-Stove
ReviewerID: A37MZVDP5KSXJR
ReviewerName: John Deere 216
Date: November 25, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 3.0
Title: Mine Didn't Put Out Enough Heat
Content:
I was looking for something to heat a 12x23 basement rec room and after reading all of the positive reviews on this I bought it.  Upon removing it from the box I was very impressed with it's build quality.  It feels solid and looks nice.  Before taking it to the basement I hooked it up in my 12x16 living room for a test run, with an outdoor temp around 50.   It looked good.  The fire and coals were nice, although to be honest I've yet to see an electric "fire" that was truly realistic.  Anyway, I ran it on high for a few hours and it maintained the current room temp at 68.7.  I was disappointed to see that it didn't actually raise the temperature.  I then switched it down to the lower setting, and couldn't notice a major difference between the low and high.  I'm not sure if this is how it is or if mine is defective.  I ran it for about another hour on low and lost 2/10th degrees in the room.  I am sending it back to Amazon, which so far has been no problem.  
Since I'm sending it back, I'm obviously disappointed.  I could see it (or at least mine) being used to heat a bedroom, but in a larger room as I had intended it doesn't come close to output of my cheaper Holmes Quartz heater.  On the positive side it is attractive, and is quieter than the Holmes.  I'm not yet sure if I am going to try another in hopes that this one is defective or move on to something else.  
Summary
 
Pros: 
 
Attractive
Solid Feel
Quiet
Con    
Not enough heat output.  Maintained room temperature on high.  Lost a little temperature on low.  No noticable difference between the 2 heat settings in either output or sound.  Again, maybe mine is defective.
I did notice in other reviews that some people commented that it would be better if it had a built in thermostat.  That problem could be solved with an outlet thermostat, which can be bought on Amazon for around $35.