ID: B00008UI0R-R3H1XYP6AT0A4P-AFM61DKBSTD4Z
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: AFM61DKBSTD4Z
ReviewerName: M. Lewis "chipper"
Date: September 11, 2007
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: Hard worker
Content:
After shopping around I determined the S3755 or S3765 would be a good choice for my budget.  Got the S3765 Monday and began by sweeping a rug on my hardwood floor with the huge (14 1/2") motorized carpet attachment.  It did seemed to run away, pulling me.  That stopped immediately when I put the thing into high suction mode.  Then it seemed a bit hard to push as the suction was so strong.  It pulled a lot of sand and dirt that the old sweeper missed earlier.  Then to the sofa with the power brush.  That one did well, it would not turn on low speed, but high speed spun it hard and cleaned well.
They claimed to have a dust brush, no they don't.  MR HOOVER GET A CLUE, the short stiff brush on the upholstery attachment is NOT, repeat NOT a duster brush!  Duster brushes are ROUND (like my old Hoover had).  They have LONG bristles that are somewhat soft like a paint brush... MR HOOVER ... HELLO!  I will have to purchase an aftermarket as the upholstery thing will not do.  I am quite surprised, too that HOOVER don't get why we buy canisters, again MR HOOVER:  WE have hardwood and ceramic floors, we need proper floor attachments.  This one comes with a tiny NINE inch "toy" floor brush.  And if you think I can use the carpet thing on hardwood you are clueless on how to clean a floor!  (MR HOOVER)
It cleans well, and does an excellent job on carpets.  The power upholstery attachment does good on the living room furniture. It did fine on curtains also.  For the price I would have expected a better hardwood floor brush, the little bitty one did fine on stairs and under the furniture.  A waste of the good power to use such a small attachment for cleaning a room.  Also for the price, I would expect a real DUST BRUSH.  Perhaps it would be better to buy the S3755 saving enough to buy better tools.