ID: B0007QKMSC-R20JUWXMVKY59B-A2AEPBS11FPO2I
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-Camera
ReviewerID: A2AEPBS11FPO2I
ReviewerName: DrEDG "gynetix"
Date: August 26, 2005
Helpful: 8 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent digital SLR
Content:
It is remarkable to consider that the single-lens reflex camera has been around since the 1970s and, despite the transition away from 35mm film to digital, this type of camera remains one of the best you can purchase. The Canon Digital Rebel XT was my choice as I have always been satisfied with Canon and the quality of their cameras. The camera is aimed at the serious amateur photographer, and priced at under $1000. So onto my impressions of it.
The first thoughts on the camera after opening its box is the size, it is one of the more compact SLRs on the market. Some may dislike this, but for me it is a positive feature of the camera. The aesthetics of the camera are good; I choose the model with the silver body. The first minus is the lack of a supplied compact flash card. Canon are a little mean in this regard, and even with their point-and-shoot digital cameras only supply a small (32 MB or so) CF card. I would recommend purchasing at least 1 GB CF card for this camera. For the price Canon really should try and do better. The rest of the review is very positive. Computer support is good (Mac and PC) with the bundled CD applications, though it isn't good enough to tempt me away from Editing in Photoshop. The camera interface is straight forward, and the auto-focus will allow many to use this camera and produce great quality images without the need to change the settings. AT 8 MP, image quality and definition are very high. The manual and supporting documentation is very good and detailed, so without too much effort you can easily learn how to adjust the image settings to produce exactly the picture you wish. The user-interface and LCD is good and easy to work with, and I find Battery life is good. 
All-in-all an excellent package. One of the best SLR cameras of its type on the market, and you don't have to be a "pro" to take excellent pictures with it. If you don't have one then definitely order a case for the camera, a good quality photo printer, and longer term you will probably want to invest in a tripod and extra lenses. Canon continues to maintain their record of excellence in their SLR cameras.