ID: B0007USD34-R1J24WB59VXQ4U-A2UGEF9M6EPP2T
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Digital-14-45mm-3-5-5-6-40-150mm
ReviewerID: A2UGEF9M6EPP2T
ReviewerName: D. M. LaPorte "Capt D."
Date: June 4, 2005
Helpful: 40 of 40
Rating: 5.0
Title: Capt D
Content:
Well, where does one start?  Ok, I am for the record not a professional.  I have been shooting photos for some 45 years however.  I have in the past had a Kodak Retina ( still do with every attachment ever made for the camera in mint condition), a Nikon F1, Cannon AE1, Olympus OM1.  I  always enjoyed existing light and time exposures, and have even won some small awards and have been published in the past ( nothing really all that noteworthy).  When I shot tons of 35 mm film I enjoyed special effects using various filters, slow shutter for motion ( pan motorcycles, race cars, action sport sceens etc).  A few years ago I stopped shooting 35mm as my first choice and entered the digital age.  Mainly for the simplicity.  I bought a hot ( for the time ) Nikon 990.  Problem was, battery life and while the photos were ok it was just a point and shoot camera, all creativity was gone.
 Now comes the Olympus Evotl E-300!  I looked at the Cannon 20D, and the Nikon D70, and even the Sony DSC F828, (I did not like looking through a small TV screen on the F828).  The Olympus won me over with  some neat features on the E-300 that I really liked.  First the size, and feel.  It is  compact while at the same time has the look and feel of a "real" camera. It's so easy to use that I bought it one day, and that night went down town to see what it would do in my old love that I had missed - existing light.  Wow, is all I can say.  I got shots I would have had problems with a high grade 35 mm.  I used the "scenes" function and found it to be right on the money with each shot.  Before sunset I got a chance to use the "portrait" scene function and got fantastic results.  The back ground was in fact slightly out of focus just as I would have wanted by using the depth of field on my old 35 mm cameras.  I switched the camera to fully manual and took a number of night shots,  all came out fine.  I found that I could hold the camera for some very long exposires by hand ( 1 sec or more).  I think this may be due to the fit and feel of the camera. She just fits in your hand and holding steady is not a problem.   Also all the controls are right there and easy to figure out.  Please note that I bought the camera, and that night was using the darn thing in near total darkness. I did not have time to read and study the manual.  It's simply that easy to use.  The format of the information is simple and well placed on the camera for easy use.
 The second day ( I still have not charged the battery) I took a trip around Guam. (Here for business.)  There are some really gorgeous scenes on Guam if you know where to look.  Beach scenes, palm trees, large green rolling hills and a multitude of other neat items like old WWII relics in the jungle came out crisp and clear.  I use the B/W function and at the same time upped the saturation and contrast for some very interesting back lit dramatic subjects.  I left the contrast and saturation on high for some very blue skies and some very white clouds., the prints  came out looking like post cards! The shore line shots came out well with this combination as well.  Then at sunset I had to try the "sunset" function.  I got some very amazing sunset shots with palm trees shadowed in the foreground.   I only wish Olympus would have also put a "sunrise" option on the camera, as I think it would also do well there. ( ok, guys... I'm kidding. And little humor here).
 I've been running each program on the camera, using the A, S, and Program settings.  I've stopped down and up for highlight and back lit subjects,  used the close up function, action shot function, etc.  In the old days we may shoot some 36-50 shots and have 4-5 that came out the way we wanted.  In using my E-300 I have just put some 55 shots on a CD and I'd estimate at least 75% -80%  of them are even better than anticipated.  I'm sure this is due to the fact that during the day one can simply delete and shoot again for a better photo.  I should also mention that I am shooting on a lower than highest quality due to my need to email the photos.  Even with the lower setting of some 3.6 - 4.3 megs the photos are sharp, clear and detailed of likes I have never seen from a digital camera. 
 I've printed some of the photos out on photo paper at 8x10 inches and posted them on my office wall.   More than one person has commented on the great photos... they really look great, such detail and again I am not even on the highest setting!
 
 In short I am more than impressed with the camera.  I would not dream of sending it back.  She is a very high quality camera, and in the 48 hrs of its use I have come to love it!   It's simply in a word........fantastic!
 
 Some concerns ( compaints is simply to harsh a word for this camera). 
I'd like to see all DSLR makers give you at least one small recording  card with the camera for taking photos.  For near $1000.00 we can't even be able to save one photo?  Come on.
I do not like that fact that there is no way to take a time exposure with some sort of cable or electrical control.  I suppose the remote takes care of this?  Don't know, but I intend to get the remote and see if in fact the camera can take time exposures on a tripod for times of 2-4-8 etc seconds.
 While the other cameras I looked at are also high quality cameras, and I'm sure they all take great photos.  I cannot recommend the E-300 enough.  It is one of the few times in life I have parted with a moderate sum $1000.00 ( +/-) and after the fact pleased by the transaction.  Not unlike a fine car, or a very expensive dinner out on the town... as long as the quality is there you don't mind parting with the green at the end of the day.  My purchase of this camera is a high point in my love of photo taking.  Buy one, and I doubt you will  be disappointed!