ID: B000EPNB52-R3JXOAKUAYB1T9-A2ACJ55JHHJ3FU
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-nano-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A2ACJ55JHHJ3FU
ReviewerName: K. L. Woomer
Date: November 26, 2006
Helpful: 3 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: Is this the product for your music listening pleasure?
Content:
Okay. This is a device that I have owned (I say have, because I am about ready to sell it to some interested buyers)... but I found something that is way better. The Sony PSP. 
Yea, the Sony PSP. It plays music, it has capability to insert a 4 gig SD PSP memory chip (mine has the one gigger at the moment until I sell my nano and buy the 4 gigger on a popular auction site), it play videos in GREAT video quality, and it plays games, AND it is web ready, you can surf the web anywhere there is a HOT SPOT. Hold pictures, and you can trade pics with other PSP's or email them from the web browser. USB hook up point. Has devices that charge it from the car... I use my FM Transmitter (iRiver) to broadcast the music in my car (yes this also has a headphone jack) - and there are about 100 accesories you can get for this device, including a BOOM BOX type of thing you sit this into (like the apples) but it only cost $199, and Apples cost $359. How much would you pay for a Video iPod? That only plays minimal games? $350? 
GUESS how much the PSP cost? $199. 
I really loved the iPod, but I really feel like I was ripped off by Sony because I didn't know that this device did all these things. Quite frankly I would not have bought the four different iPods I bought had I known that this device did all that it did. 
It is NOT as small as a nano, but not much bigger than a iPod Video device. (and news is, they are going to make that one biggger too). So if your demands are a very small expensive device that only plays music, the iPod is for you. If you want more flexability in a device.. there is not a cheaper multimedia device on the market. Simply put. 
The reason I put this in the Apple Nano review? Because I would have liked to have read this before I bought my nano, here in the amazon review section (which I use all the time) and changed my mind and bought the PSP. 
Sony is looking for a device that will compete with APPLE all the time, and they don't even know they already have it. They should market this more instead of making those UGLY Mp3 players that will never come close to being as cool as any MP3 player that Apple makes (I use the term MP3 loosely here, and those apple folks know what I mean). Sony wake up. Apple folks who want to play games and have multimedia action, wake up! 
All said and done, this may be the product for you.  But look.  It might not be the product.  The PSP does a LOT.  Plus music.
Have fun.