ID: B0001A99ME-RNVAS81I4MKTY-A1B9WX7HJ7LLMX
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-M9434LL-Green-MODEL
ReviewerID: A1B9WX7HJ7LLMX
ReviewerName: B. P. Page
Date: February 23, 2004
Helpful: 40 of 41
Rating: 5.0
Title: Another Winner from Apple
Content:
I purchased my iPod Mini two days after it was released and I must admit, I am blown away by the functionality and style of Apple's newest creation.  Just as a background, I also own a 20 GB third generation iPod, so my comparisons and observations are from a first hand perspective.So, why on earth did I buy a Mini?  Quite simply, I was so impressed with this device that I had to have one.  First off, the scroll wheel is vastly improved over the standard iPod.  The wheel is still touch sensitive for scrolling, but the functionality of the four buttons has been placed around the wheel and can be clicked.  This makes for much easier one handed operation.  The screen is razor sharp and the backlighting is awesome.  The exterior shell is all aluminum and the screen is recessed in the front of the case.  This ipod feels much more durable and resisitant to scratching than my standard iPod.  The battery life is also improved.  This mini played for nearly 8 hours on the first charge.  I typically never get more than 4.5-6 out of my standard iPod.  The biggest difference is the form factor of the device (size and the weight).  At only 3.6 ounces this iPod can be carried in the pocket without noticing it is there.  As small as my standard iPod is, somehow, you always know it is there.  The Mini solves this problem.  After all, what good is an iPod that holds all of my music, if it is not quite small enough to have with me all the time.Perhaps one of the coolest parts is the interaction with iTunes.  My Library is 7.4 GB, which exceeds the capacity of the Mini.  However, when you connect it for the first time, it automatically knows this and creates an &quot;iPod Mini Playlist&quot; that serves as a second library just for my Mini.  Just drag and drop from your main library and the songs transfer to the Mini in a snap.Now, I know what you are all thinking . . . why pay $249 for 4 GB, when you can have 15 GB for only $50 more?  The answer is quite simple.  In life, purchasing decisions are made with emotion and justified with logic.  On paper, there is no disputing the fact that you get far more GB per dollar by going with the standard iPod; and the standard iPod is a terrific piece of equipment.  But beyond the logical considerations lies the iPod Mini.  The way it feels in your hand, the enhanced functionality of the scroll wheel, the great form factor, and the cool aluminum finish.  All of these intangibles create a product that transcends a strict price per GB comparison and makes this iPod worth every penny of its $249 price tag.The bottom line . . . I have 1050 songs on my Mini with room to spare.  I bought the Mini because it puts a smile on my face every time I use it and it is just too darn cool to pass up.  I highly recommend this device.