ID: B00008UI0R-R2YGLRMGBKNXEY-AEC90GPFKLAAW
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: AEC90GPFKLAAW
ReviewerName: Lisa Kearns "Mom of Four"
Date: July 20, 2007
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Wow! Best Vacuum I've Ever Owned!
Content:
In 28 years of housekeeping I've owned at least six vacuum cleaners.  Some were very inexpensive because that's all I could afford, and some were a little better quality.  But all of them died after just a few years. I nursed along my GE cannister vacuum for an extra year because I dreaded spending the money for a new one, AGAIN.  
Finally the day came that I couldn't put it off anymore.  I read the reviews on Amazon and settled for the Hoover S3765-040.  I had never tried a bag-less vacuum, but it will be nice to not have to search for bags at Walmart or online.
It arrived in just a couple of days, thanks to Amazon's free shipping, and I quickly assembled it and tried it out.  Our home is always dirty, with two adults, four kids, a dog and a cat, and assorted neighbor kids running in an out.  This vacuum has such powerful suction and such a GREAT rugbeater head that it got a gallon of pet hair, dirt, dust and fuzz balls out of my downstairs!  I had to stop and empty the cup a few times, and was amazed at what my poor old vacuum hadn't picked up!
Inside the dirt collector cup is a filter, which got dirt and fuzz stuck in it.  I was dreading picking all that out each time, but it cleaned up in one minute.  I took it outside, rolled it between my hands and tapped it firmly on the deck, and tons of dirt and fuzz came out.  It looks new again after each cleaning!
I'm delighted with the caster wheels on this product, too.  My old one rolled on its back when I pulled it.  This one has a nice long cord (20 feet)and a long hose on the suction end too. It also has the power button on the part you hold in your hand - much nicer than having to find the cannister stuck between the sofa and the armchair to turn it off. My only complaint is that there isn't a clip on it to hold the other brush attachments. So I'll have to go find them in a closet when I want to use them.  But to my delight, the small brush attachment from my old GE fit on this one too....so I can brush smaller areas than the new attachments would allow.
Overall, this is a wonderful, well designed product.  It's powerful, lightweight, rolls easily, and avoids the need for bags.  I'm so pleased with this vacuum cleaner!