ID: B000A33B1C-R79TSMCAIYX23-AWTYZ4JNWH7B1
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Delonghi-TRD0715T-Safe-Oil-Filled-Radiator
ReviewerID: AWTYZ4JNWH7B1
ReviewerName: D. C. Sillik
Date: January 20, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: better wheels would have made it 5 stars, great heater
Content:
please read on, this review is about the heater listed above but starts out as a comment i made in response to another heater i have, the Honeywell HZ-709 7 Fin Oil Filled Radiator Heater with Digital Controls. "i'm curious: you say it took 10 hrs to heat a room to 72 degrees, how cold was the room to start? I'm just starting to work on an empty studio apt attached to me home...i would guess it's about 15 x 30' with the bathroom and kitchenette. the start temp was about 53 degrees F. when i started, i checked in it about 15 min later and found that it shut itself off. having never read the instructions i decided to do so...that darn timer really works. after setting the timer correctly, the entire studio was heated up to 72F. i read that a lot of people were having trouble with it turning itself off and just wonder how many had the same problem i did. i purchased this one from Walmart and used it in two different rooms in my large home here in Ventura county CA. our home has 5 bedrooms + the studio with only 2 bedrooms being occupied. we have a gas heater but don't use it because we really don't need to heat the empty rooms or the 2 lg family rooms where the thermostat is located. a few months ago i purchased a different make here at amazon, it is the Delonghi TRD0715T Safe Heat Oil-Filled Radiator. not nearly as nice looking as the Honeywell but i believe it works much better and has a much better timer in that it allows for many on/off cycles. its timer is like one that you find on many of the Malibu lighting timers. it has little tabs (96 i think). this allows for really versatile settings. here is a scenario: set it to turn off at 10pm and stay off until about 1/2 hr to 45 minutes before she gets up about 5 the am, it then turns off until my turn to get up rolls around, then the process repeats itself, turning itself off about 15-30 min before i leave for work and then stays off all day until about 30 min or so before we get home, then the process repeats itself. the Delonghi TRD0715T Safe Heat Oil-Filled Radiator also has what i consider a great advantage to all the other radiator type heaters: the sides whers the fins are have a piece of sheet metal attached to them, the sheet metal goes down from the top of the fins to about 2" or so from the floor. looking down from the top of the heater you see what I'll discribe as 6-8 channels on each side of the heater; this causes what is known as a drafting effect. the hot air rising through the channels causes the cold air from the floor areas to be sucked up the channels, gaining momentum and actually acting like a fan that really pushes the heated air up fast enough so that when it hits the ceiling it kind of bounces back down creating pretty good circulation and stops the hot air from just sitting on the ceiling. for those of you that are mechanically inclined, I'm sure you understand what I'm talking about, for you others: if you can't figure out what I'm talking about, just trust me or get a friend to help you with that concept. owning both heaters, both rated at 1500 watts (max) it is really easy for me to see (feel) the difference.
we live in a home that is about 40-45 years old and has it's share of unwanted drafts, poor insulation etc. when we spend a lot of time in the family rooms we just leave the oven on, sometimes with the door open, sometimes with it closed. it's also not unusual for us to go to bed and just leave the oven on set at 200-300F (door closed), this really helps keep the bitter chill off the rest of the house. this actually uses very little gas and helps us to balance the baseline cost for the gas and electricity. we also use smoke and carbon dioxide detectors just in case.
I have been buying from Amazon and using the reviews for years. Amazon has been really good to me as have the thousands of reviews i have read, this is just my way of giving a little something back. i hope it helps someone...david" incidently: none of the heaters i looked at had wheels that i consider any good. mu guess is that the mfg didn't pay more that 25 cents a caster, more likely, i would think 10-15 cents each.