ID: B000A33B1C-RZFSEJW6NSKWB-A1YNEPGY0YWU8Z
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Delonghi-TRD0715T-Safe-Oil-Filled-Radiator
ReviewerID: A1YNEPGY0YWU8Z
ReviewerName: C. Byrne
Date: January 28, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: Delonghi TRD0715T Safe Heat Oil-Filled Radiator
Content:
Pros:
This a great heater. I bought two of them, one for a 12x15 bedroom which I use it on the timer mode and the other for an open plan living room/Kitchen 13x25. 
Both rooms are used in the New York metro area and keep the rooms nice and warm when on the 1 (1 out of 3) setting and the temperature slider at the 1/3 or 2/3 Mark. 
I've been home every day since November 26, 2007 to January 28, 2008 using the heaters constantly. Outside temperatures have ranged from 50 F to 16 F and each billing cycle my total electricity usage for the household (inclusive of all appliances) has been averaging 800 kWh, which is down over 200 kWh on the October/November usage where I was only home during the evenings but using the buildings built in wall heater/air conditioner units in each room. 
The 1-3 settings seem to acelerate the time it takes to heat up the radiator from cold, generally I use it on the 1 setting which is a fast warm up period. 
Initially, for first few hours, there was an odor from the paint curing on the new heater, however, it didn't bother me or affect the breathing of my partner who suffers from asthma, although she didn't like the smell. However, since the second day, the only time there is any odor, is when the setting is on 3 and the temperature on maximum. In my opinion there is no need to have it on these settings, as even when the outside temperature was 16 F, the 1 setting and 2/3 temperature kept the living room at a comfortable 70 F. 
Since using these heaters and forgoing the blower heaters in the walls of our apartment, my partners asthma has improved due to no direct blowing of any settled dust, and the air has noticeably more natural humidity than with the blower heaters. 
I have seen complaints about oil leakage, and have to say it must have been a damaged product. My parents and siblings in europe have used Delonghi oil radiators and I have never heard of any oil leakage. 
Cons:
Delonghi should ensure that there is no odor at the highest settings and temperature. A digital thermostat and timer would be great improvement. An energy star rating would be a good idea.