ID: B0000SWDR0-R1HZTBXORA0PVW-A23VN5Z1DNWRN9
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-Vacuum-Cleaner-EL6989A-Canister
ReviewerID: A23VN5Z1DNWRN9
ReviewerName: E. Teltschik
Date: October 21, 2005
Helpful: 15 of 15
Rating: 4.0
Title: Has worked fine for me
Content:
I've had this vacuum for over 9 months now with no problems.  I bought it to replace an old upright that didn't seem to cut it anymore.  As I have a small apartment with both carpeting and tile floors, I wanted something that would work equally well on hard surfaces and carpet, and liked the idea of a HEPA filtered device.  So far, it's done what I expected.
Generally, the Oxygen is small and maneuverable.  It makes short work of my floors, and I can quickly move between the tile and carpet.  The powerhead works well, though be careful around cords and the like - I soon found out how quickly it can grab one and pull it in.  Sometimes it seems like it has trouble with some debris, but other times it seems to magically grab things and suck them down.  The floor brush works very well, though I've found it sometimes works more like a broom, forcing me to lift it up and come down on a particular item.  Suction is strongest where the hose attaches, though it still picks up well at the extremities.  I've found the small powerhead works well on bathroom rugs and the like that would be otherwise overpowered by the larger powerbrush.  The combination of the suction strength on both the vacuum and on the control wand is nice, as you can tailor the suction to the job at hand.
I have had no problems with belts or any other breakage.  To be on the safe side after reading some of the other reviews, I did purchase extra belts and bags when I bought the unit - my local Lowes had them in stock.  I just replaced the bag for the first time, not because it was full, but because I just finished sucking up some bugs.  I had noticed the bag full indicator coming on when the nozzle got completely obstructed by something, so that seems to work as well. (The light went off as soon as I cleared the obstruction.)  Changing bags is extremely simple when compared to my old vacuum.
Overall, I have no major complaints.  The vacuum works well.  If I could change anything, I'd rework the foot release on the powerhead since it seems to stick, and I'd prefer a fully rotating hose, but it's only a minor inconvenience to straighten out the hose now and then.
If you're looking for a good cannister vacuum to perform a variety of jobs, this one seems to fit the bill.