ID: B0000X7CMQ-RICZ6LKTC7JBF-A2X547K1BG4LAQ
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Zojirushi-EC-BD15-Thermal-Carafe-Coffee
ReviewerID: A2X547K1BG4LAQ
ReviewerName: Optor
Date: March 8, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Machine
Content:
I've previously written a review for a machine of a different brand and that model was a very good one, however, there were some issues that we realized it had after we used it for a while which I won't discuss here since it isn't relevant to this machine. First thing I want to say is that we love this machine.  I'm not quite a coffee connoisseur  but I do appreciate the taste of a nice flavorful cup of coffee and this machine does just that.  I've learned a lot about what it takes to get that flavorful cup and this machine seems to have all it takes to do that.  The coffee is hot and stays hot for quite a while after it brews.  In my house coffee doesn't last too long in the pot to begin with... so hot is not really a problem.  My problem was finding a machine to get us that great taste that you find in your favorite diner or restaurant.  I like the idea of the stainless carafe as opposed to the hot plate and I can say that this carafe is quality built.  Stainless steel inside and out and although the coffee is hot on the inside... the outside of the carafe remains cool to the touch which tells me that this is well insulated.  I've had a cup of coffee one hour after we brewed and it was still plenty hot to drink.  The machine is very easy to use and maintain.  And as far as the #4 filters sticking up out of the basket... please, don't these people have anything else worth complaining about... in other words... it's not a problem.  They really don't stick out... just tuck the slight bit under.  The machine works fine and we never once had a problem with overflow of water or coffee coming out of the basket.  If you set up the machine right, and it doesn't take a person with an engineering masters to do it, then you will be pleased with a great tasting result. My wife likes the simple design which is a bonus for me since the machine fitting in with the kitchen is important as well (to her anyway...:) )  Bottom line, try it out.  We are glad we did.