ID: B0000A0VA9-R1SLHJ7TJ2R9E-A13EUEEIV42G4O
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Eureka-Compact-Canister-Vacuum-Yellow
ReviewerID: A13EUEEIV42G4O
ReviewerName: Elizabeth A. Brown "www.shineequestrian.com"
Date: August 29, 2009
Helpful: 12 of 12
Rating: 5.0
Title: Much Better than some of its reviews!
Content:
I almost didn't give this vacuum a try because of the very mixed reviews it got. This is a great vacuum, you just have to know what you want from it! I would NOT reccomend the dirt devil power stick which i tried first, it was powerful enough, but extremely loud, flimsy, and blew strong hot air out both sides of it that blew all the dirt away. 
I train horses, have 2 large dogs, two small kids, one cat, and a husband. we live in the country, and my floors get as dirty as any i've ever seen! I have mostly tile floors with deep grout grooves, which other small stick vacs never have enough power to clean. This eureka has plenty of power!!! pet hair, crumbs, arena sand, litter... even out of the tile grooves! I have one small area rug that it does good enough on, though I would not reccomend this vacuum for any one that has more carpet as the vacuum head does not have a motorized beater bar. The cord is a little short- oh well :) 
it is perfect for cleaning cars too. my model came with a "power paw" attatchment which does have a rotating bristle bar (powered by the suction) that is quite powerfull and the perfect size for cleaning vehicle carpets, stairs with carpet, or couch surfaces. the extension/telescoping "wand" is made from metal, the cord rewind is strong, the "exhaust" points out the back, the bags a little on the small side, but not to the point you should rule this vacuum out (they are a little smaller than a brown paper lunch sack). I actually prefere the bags to a bagless because of the mess that becomes of the dirt cups and filters; this has MUCH cleaner air coming out, too! 
In regards to other reviews- This vacuum does have a crevis and apholstry tool, they are housed under the body of the vacuum at the back end. There is also a sliding plate on the handle that you can open if you want to decrease power for delicate jobs... try shutting that if you dont think its powerful enough. Don't listen to the bad reviews- If you want a vacuum for hard floors and above floor cleaning, there is no reason not to get this vac if you want to spend under $100. Hope you give it a try!