ID: B000N22JPE-RDRJ4LWGNCNE2-A1N93XI7UGG1WM
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1100BK-12-Cup-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1N93XI7UGG1WM
ReviewerName: Squidgey Flint
Date: March 8, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 2.0
Title: Form over function
Content:
I received this coffee maker as a christmas present from my young daughter, thus I am stuck with it.
It looks great, and it makes great coffee too. Unfortunately the folks who designed this maker didn't actually think about usage and because of that, I really dislike this machine. The old Mr. Coffee this replaced was very user friendly.
Problems:
1. The pour area is pretty small so you have to be precise. Due to having hard water, I fill my coffee makers via filtered pitcher to reduce the amount of scale that will build up if I don't and the small pour area makes that harder than it needs to be.
2. The only water level indicator is a window on the right side of the unit which works for me because of how our kitchen counter is arranged. Had it been on the left, I'd have trouble. There are no level indicators inside the unit so you have to look from the side which is hard when you are standing in front of the machine trying to fill it.
3. The fill area is in the back on the right side as well. So you have to pour from the right to hit the small area, but the fill indicator is on the right as well. So in my case, filling from a pitcher is harder than it should be. Water level indicators in the inside would make a world of difference, as would a fill area that opened up in the front as well.
4. The place where the hot water comes out has these raised little 'nozzels' and beause of everything being raised and close togethor, it is really hard to clean up in there.
5. The drip area on the top of the lid has a dome (to engage the 'pause') that the coffee pours over and then underneath to make its way into the pot. The area under the dome is nigh impossible to clean as well, without baby bottle cleaners or some other long skinny brush.
6. The lid itself is either on or off. It doesn't flip up and open but snaps on. While I'm ok with that, it isn't that easy to get the lid off, and once you do, the ridges that the thing snaps into, again are small and pretty hard to clean.
Things I like; It makes great coffee. The carafe feels nice in my hand and sturdy. The filter basket is a cone which makes for better coffee in my opinion because you get a longer extraction time with a consistant flow (basket filters have inconsistant flow when the coffee hits the bottom of the basket). It looks great.
All in all, the usability issues far outweigh the positives and are a big turnoff for me, so much so that I grumble everytime I use it. If you can live with those issues, then this could be a great machine for you. For me, I wish this unit hadn't come to me as a gift from my daughter.