ID: B0000SWAC8-R2ISD86IF3B469-
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL6988D-Oxygen3-Canister-Cleaner
ReviewerID: 
ReviewerName: 
Date: July 15, 2004
Helpful: 81 of 98
Rating: 3.0
Title: Which Electrolux?
Content:
Star rating is just a placeholder, but you might find the following helpful.I was doing research on Electrolux vacuum as my Mom has used those before and doesn't want anything less.  I was surprised and confused when I discovered that there are actually two Electrolux brand out there.One is Aerus Electrolux, Texas based (www.aerusonline.com), and the other is the US subsidiary of Electrolux, headquartered in Sweden (www.electrolux.com).I originally thought the Swedish maker (Volvo springs to mind) is the one that my Mom is familiar with, but turns out that Aerus Electrolux vacuum are actually the ones.Aerus Electrolux's top of the line Guardian 9000 carries a list price of over sixteen hundred, and retails realistically for about a thousand and is sold mostly through dealers.  The Swedish Electrolux's top of the line Oxygen Ultra retails for five hundred and you can find it on Amazon.  The Swedish maker also owns the Eureka brand (a respectable vacuum too).I ended up buying a Guardian 9000 from Aerus Electrolux for my Mom and she's been very happy with it for the past year.  It is built like a tank, bullet-proof Lexan plastic, good suction, HEPA filter.  And we know neighbors with earlier versions that lasted decades and still going.I noticed that some of the other reviewers who owned Electrolux before are disappointed with the Oxygen.  Well, I guess they might have owned an Aerus Electrolux before, and did not know that Oxygen Ultra is actually made by a different company.Now, how can two companies own the same brand?  Aerus Electrolux was founded in 1924 in US, the Swedish maker in 1919 (according to their respective web sites).  I don't know when the Swedish maker started marketing in earnest in US, but Aerus might have lost a court battle somewhere, which would explain why the Guardian vacuum machines carry the LUX (R) trademark these days instead of Electrolux.Would I buy any vacuum machine for over a thousand?  Probably not.  But if you or someone in your family is in search of a perfect vacuum, the above might help.