ID: B000I3XQNC-R1B5SNLADLLOFT-A1VKARFANQ2TXM
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-10-1MP-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A1VKARFANQ2TXM
ReviewerName: Dobeman "Dobeman"
Date: January 17, 2007
Helpful: 5 of 8
Rating: 4.0
Title: Moved Down from Canon EOS 35mm, but very pleased!
Content:
I have a Canon Eos 35mm (not a Rebel) camera that I have been using for many years and loved it. It was time to move to digital however and I just couldn't justify the cost of the 10mega-pixel EOS, so I opted to "step-down" to the Digital Rebel XTi.
After taking my existing ultrasonic lenses to a local retailer and making sure they'd work on the Rebel XTi, I purchased a "body only" version of the camera, thus saving myself roughly $50 dollars. 
I've been using the camera for a few days now, mostly in the house and I'm happy to say that I think I made the right decision. Only a real die-hard photographer will lament the loss of some of the finer configurations available on the full EOS. For me, and for most people, the Rebel XTi has everything you need. It still includes your standard modes: Landscape, Sport, Twilight, etc., and of course you can adjust aperture and all that other stuff that only people who do it as a profession or hobby really understand anyway. 
The built-in flash is very powerful, moreso I'd say than what was on my EOS 35mm, and the menu is more intuitive than the Fuji FinePix I had before purchasing this camera. 
Additionally, some have noted that any 35mm lens you try to use on the digital will creating some cropping, but I don't really see a difference. I probably would if I could put the two side x side, but my standard wide-angle lens takes in a fair amount of space, and my zoom lens appears fine too. For reference I have the Ultrasonic lenses with the red dot, not the ones with the red dot and white square.
Cons: You can't view what you're taking a picture of in the viewfinder; you have to look through the lens. Also, the carry strap that comes with it is pretty cheap. I'll probably use the one from my EOS.
My particular purchase included everything BUT a CF card, so I got a 2GB one from Transcend ($45), and it works perfectly. 
Overall, I'm very happy with my purchase and I don't feel like I missed out on any features by not buying the EOS.