ID: B000TGDGLU-R38JVL7K5QJ6PZ-AJ27FPFTE22QR
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-EW7707CM-Oil-filled-ComforTemp-Technology
ReviewerID: AJ27FPFTE22QR
ReviewerName: Nocturnal
Date: January 2, 2008
Helpful: 9 of 13
Rating: 4.0
Title: Pretty good and real quiet
Content:
The gas wall heater died and we didn't think it was worth fixing (several hundred $$) since we only heat the bedroom during the coldest nights (just to take the chill off the room) or if someone is ill.  Plus our gas wall heater straddles 2 bedrooms, one of which is only used as a guest room and doesn't need to be heated.  So we got one of these after reading the customer reviews.  It is a pretty good heater.  I'm a very light sleeper so electric heaters with fans are out of the question. One night we forgot to turn off the DeLonghi heater and the small clicks when the heat goes on or off didn't wake me so we've been leaving this heater one all night (unlike past winters when we've turned the heat off before diving into bed).  It heats the room enough to make it comfortable but not stiflingly hot--with the only except being on the one exceptionally cold night it didn't seem to make much of a dent in the coldness (gets that cold only infrequently) so I had to switch to a ceramic heater with fan to warm up the room a few degrees so I could fall asleep.  We also have to turn this DeLonghi on a few hours before going to bed so the room can be sufficiently heated (close the doors, kick the draft strips against the doors, etc.).  Haven't gotten the utility bill yet though.  And can't run the bathroom space heater if this one is on (they share the same circuit breaker) so taking a shower/bath has to be strategically planned to not conflict with heating the bedroom.  Haven't figured out what the numbered rotary dial is for, I just pick a number from 3 to 6.  No smell.  There also was no assembly involved other than to pop out the wheelies (a good thing).  Oh, mom gave us another oil heater (looks similar) by Solaris or Sol____ something which we don't use because it doesn't heat anything up except itself (if you sit on it, you'll feel a slight warmth), it make a very loud click going off and on and makes these ticking clicks (like metal heating up) which is annoying, and it smells like heating oil.  I was going to put that in the front room for the cats to use during the cold night but since it doesn't heat (the other things could have been tolerated), it's going away somewhere.  We may buy another DeLonghi for the cats since I hate leaving on the gas wall heater in the front when an adult is not monitoring it.