ID: B00004R936-R36B6PT2DXGEO4-A2EH3RIZ492ZLS
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Melitta-MEMB1B-10-Cup-Coffeemaker-Black
ReviewerID: A2EH3RIZ492ZLS
ReviewerName: smoochgirl
Date: March 12, 2003
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Time for a new coffee maker!
Content:
I wanted to let you know, if you're considering the Melitta Mill & Brew, don't expect to have it for more than 3 years! After about 2 1/2 years of making wonderfully smelling and tasting coffee, my Melitta will be retiring! Just recently, it began making this high-pitched sound while grinding. The coffee seemed to be the same, and I never figured it out. I was preparing for it to suddenly die, but it didn't. The terrible sound finally stopped, but then I noticed coffee grinds were brewing into the caraffe. I tried adjusting the grind settings and I still get grinds in the coffee. It's not enough to ruin the coffee since they settle at the bottom of the caraffe, but it should hold me over until I decide on whether or not I want to get another one. I don't know how long these machines are supposed to last, but you can expect at least 2 1/2 years. That's not bad considering how low these machines cost. I still recommend this coffee maker if you appreciate freshly ground coffee without hassling with a separate grinder. It has a compact size and it's easy to maintain. You can't beat it for the price! As for the machine shutting off after an hour, who wants to drink coffee that's been heating for more than an hour! That's when it gets bitter and tastes bad. Call me picky, but I won't drink coffee that's been brewed for more than thirty minutes! For that reason, I am looking in to the Cuisinart Grind and Brew with a thermal caraffe! That seems like a machine that has it all! I will keep you all posted on what I purchase. I'm sure after two years, most of the kinks have been worked out on both the Melitta and the Cuisinart. It's just a matter of how much you want to spend. Good luck with your coffee makers and happy coffee drinking to all! :)