ID: B000VDQ38E-R3EFJPN83I1Z7C-A1Z54EM24Y40LL
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1Z54EM24Y40LL
ReviewerName: carolyn "shopperextrodinaire"
Date: March 9, 2008
Helpful: 10 of 11
Rating: 4.0
Title: Really great suction but blows dust into the air
Content:
I like this vacuum.  I bought it to use in addition to my Rainbow because Rainbows are extremely cumbersome when you're in a hurry.  Rainbow vacs blow zero dust into the air since everything is blown into a tub of water and trapped.  This vacuum is awesome on the suction but since I have a HUGE dust allergy, my husband HAS to empty it whenever it's used because my hands just get bit to pieces by all the dust mites it picks up and then I have a rash for a few days.  What's pretty gross is to take an old spoon and pull back the carpet fibers, dust, etc., this thing gets up and watch all the dust mites jump around.  EEWWW! Love, love love how this machine picks up though!  Only downfall besides the dust factor is that you HAVE to watch how much stuff you're picking up and empty it rather frequently to avoid a huge mess and clogs.  Wish they could come up with something else that has this much suction but no dust.  
Okay, here's the downfalls. I've had mine for almost 2 years now and once again, I have to take it in to be repaired.  Bought the service contract at the local Sears store and so glad I did!  This thing breaks down on a regular basis because, I think, the suction is so powerful that they forgot to make it durable, if that makes sense.  Honestly, I won't buy it again because it just keeps breaking down.  I'm used to buying a machine and having the thing last longer than 5 months before it breaks. Why are they making vacuums so cheaply these days?  I just don't get it.  Anyway, I can recommend it for the suction because I do have two Persian cats so it makes me the resident authority :), but not for the repair record and durability.  It just won't last so if you do bite this one off, get it cheap and get the extended warranty.  You'll definitely need it!