ID: B00012FVZ6-R1TRJIYRWPNINH-A36E572BVUHLWQ
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D2H-Digital-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A36E572BVUHLWQ
ReviewerName: Justin T. Lowery "Justintosh"
Date: August 6, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Stellar camera, amazing deal, must use to fully appreciate!
Content:
I have the D2H, and make stunningly pleasing photographs with it daily, yes, in 2008. It really is a fantastic camera to use and enjoy. It may only have 4.1 MP, but the resulting RAW files are razor sharp and crisp, beautifully saturated, and nice and quick to download, copy, edit, upload, etc.
Noise-wise, properly handled (expose properly, use lowest ISO necessary), this camera can easily compete with the D200, and match or beat the D2X. 
Quality-wise, countless people have made 13x19, 16x20, and even 24x36 prints from this camera with great results. Of course, it would be smart to use a tool like Genuine Fractals to ensure proper DPI, but that's really the case with any camera. The pixels interpolate beautifully, due to a weaker (that's a good thing) anti-aliasing filter on the sensor. Larger , newer sensors often have strong anti-aliasing filters meant to reduce noise, but as a side effect they blur the pixels slightly, reducing the sensor's resolving power. Without this filter being so strong, you can go up to large print sizes gracefully, with a sharp, film-like look, as opposed to pixelation. This coming from experience, not forum postings. :)
I'm sure some technology nerd who's never made a decent photo in his life could find something to whine about with the specs (they always do), but real photographers can appreciate the speed, elegance, and pure utility of this camera.
Moose Peterson raved about this camera, as did Thom Hogan, and Joe Buissink shot it as his main DSLR for years, doing high-end A-list celebrity weddings for $15-70,000 each. I think it's more than adequate for most of us. Photographers who have these and D200s and 300s have said that if they had a money shot, they'd trust the ease of use, clean design, and raw speed of their D2H to get the job done over even the brand new D300. There's just something to be said for the quality and ergonomics of a true pro body that has to be felt to be understood. And considering you can get one of these on Amazon for just $750... that's a pretty great deal.
I can fit 2400 RAW on an 8 gig card, and shoot well... a TON of pics without running out of battery. In fact, I have yet run out of battery charge. I just shot a wedding with it, and none of my shots were noisy (I kept it to ISO 800 and lower), and after shooting all day, I'd only used 1/5 of the battery charge! And my battery is an older one! Wow!
Highly recommended. 
Speed: 5/5
ISO performance: 4/5
Ergonomics: 5/5
Battery Life: 5/5
Ease of use: 5/5 [after the 1st half hour :)] 
Features: 5/5
Bank for the buck: 5/5
I'd give it an overall 5/5, as the positives far outweigh any flaws.