ID: B000BY9A3I-R1V4W1GQ9RA8OV-A1AB4J51PQVXQ5
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dirt-Devil-082700-Vision-Canister
ReviewerID: A1AB4J51PQVXQ5
ReviewerName: Howard Choi "howard"
Date: May 14, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: very powerful, light; some flaws; good value overall
Content:
this was bought as an accessory vacuum for carpeted stairs, to supplement other vacuums for the rest of the house.
pros: 
1. this thing is very POWERFUL.
2. it is light, but well-built and high quality worksmanship.
3. it is great on uncarpeted floors (so are others).
4. it is the perfect balance b/t size and suction power for carpeted stairs. cordless vacuums are great in theory on stairs, but too weak for carpeted stairs.
5. the canister and filter are a breeze to remove and clean. way better than dealing w/ bags.
6. overall, very good value for money.
cons:
1. the main floor attachments are poorly mobile on flat, plush carpet. the wheels are too small, so it is very tough and clumsy to push FORWARD on carpet. when pulling TOWARDS you on carpet, it is fine. you lose some suctioning power by increasing mobility, but this could be a problem for some users. if POWER and deep cleaning is more important, then you might prefer this, but it is certainly less convenient. in the end, you have a very clean carpet, but it takes more work.
2. the various handles are great for the floor. on stairs, it would be great to have a nice big, generous handle on top when the main section is upright (like a Miele). there is a little finger/hand hole in the grey section of the main compartment. however, it faces "the wrong way" when you are on the stairs. you have to twist your wrist to use that hole. practically speaking, you end up grabbing the thing by the hose or base of the hose. the vac is light, so you could probably get away w/ this, but in the long run, i would fear that this might break...
3. the dusting attachment (brush) is tiny. it is barely bigger than the hose diameter. it practically looks like it was put in there as a joke. this adds to the number of times you have to go across a surface in order to clean it. they don't have/sell bigger accessory brushes. fortunately i had a spare brush from an old vacuum (different brand) that happened to fit. a brush is the best attachment for carpeted stairs.
4. it would be nice if the power slide control sort of clicked into the highest power setting. it has low friction, so it is easy to inadvertently shut off power while cleaning aggressively.