ID: B0009VELUA-R2GLM1ONUL793C-A29OQ26E65ZG2A
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-2000-Coffee-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A29OQ26E65ZG2A
ReviewerName: Tech Mologie "TM"
Date: May 20, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 3.0
Title: Super convenient but might not be too reliable
Content:
I purchased this about 2.5 yrs ago.  It makes great coffee, and it's super convenient to have the coffee on the go and to be able to pour a cup without interrupting the brewing process.  It's been excellent for parties.  I love coffee and usually have about 4-5 cups a day not counting when I am at work.  I have not measured the temperature of the coffee, but I use it in conjunction with my Capresso grinder, and it seems to be ok tastewise with some exceptions below.  Also, I do the following:
Use filtered water
Use fresh beans
Use a fresh grind from a burr grinder
So, on to the good and the bad...
Pros:
1) Convenience
2) Makes some good coffee
My beef is the following that seems to be happening to other people:
Cons (Reliability and upkeep)
1) The clock display has given out and will no longer turn on.  Apparently this is common, but it did take almost the time for the warranty to run out. I guess for $100 ($150 when I bought it), I can't expect it to last that long, but I still knock it one star for cheap electronics. 
2) The water reservoir is very tough to clean.  Since it's not removable, a lot of junk was in there.  In fact, when I took it apart to see if the problem in the electronics was a cold solder problem, I was amazed at how much crap was actually in the water reservoir.  I am now looking for coffee makers with removable or easy to clean water reservoirs. 
3) You can't make 12 cups of coffee here. Even when tamped down properly, the grounds overflow.  You can make 10 cups if you tamp the grounds properly. 
4) Uses a hot plate in the reservoir which conducts heat from the bottom heating element to keep coffee warm. At times, the first couple of drops of coffee will burn off this plate if you have been making coffee for awhile (like 20 cups of coffee at a party...)
Minor issue: 
1) The outside is a little tough to clean and will fingerprint easily. 
All in all, I really did like the convenience of this coffee maker and the coffee was decent for the first pass (second pass you will need to wait for it to cool for a bit or run cold water in the reservoir prior to making the second consecutive batch).  The problem is that I do expect reliability out of Cuisinart, Capressa, and other top name brands.  It was dissappointing since I love my Cuisinart mixer.  Also, my old Krups still works fantastically after 10 years and that one was $49 new, which I relegated to making decaf (I mean what's the point????)...;)
Hope this helps you in making a decision.