ID: B000GLHVZA-R1UAKKOOF7N5JM-A2RDS7NGKB7BQH
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Vornado-EH1-0034-06-Vortex-Full-Room-Electric
ReviewerID: A2RDS7NGKB7BQH
ReviewerName: B. Humphrey
Date: December 28, 2007
Helpful: 56 of 57
Rating: 4.0
Title: Best of the bunch for a safe, efficient, quiet space heater
Content:
I did a ton of research and bought a few heaters before this one but I'm most happy with the Vornado.  The first two I bought were digital ceramic heaters.  I have to recommend against getting a digital heater. Each time you turn it on, you have to push several controls to get back to where you like it, with this heater, you just turn it on. The only thing that kept me from buying it first was cost and the fact that it had no ceramic element which theoretically was a safer element than an electric coil. We use it in a few bedrooms that are not freezing cold but uncomfortably cold. The other great feature is it'll run on lower power and only use as much wattage as is needed to heat the room.  My other heaters would run full blast till it hit the desired temperature, then turn off, repeat over and over.  The trouble is, heaters will use about as much power as must rooms have available so if you have anything else plugged in, you'll throw the circuit breaker, which happened over and over for me. A 1200w heater (which is common) will use over 10Amps. That's a TON of power.  The Vornado will run and heat just fine on a low power setting using about 5A max and less if less is needed. 
Here's a summary of what I like:
Pros: 
  Plastic grill never gets hot to the touch - why do others use metal ?
  Only uses the power it needs to - gives your electric panel a rest
  Much easier to use than digital heaters - don't buy digital !
  Compact and stable on the floor
  Well built - many heaters are absolute junk
  
Cons:
  Expensive for a space heater
  No ceramic element which MAY mean it could spark easier
  When running on high, I noticed a buzzing noise in the fan but not during normal use