ID: B000FTLSR0-R1XJVH4SL5U7TH-A2NSLBYMNNYYWS
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-Digital-Reduction-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A2NSLBYMNNYYWS
ReviewerName: James Middleton
Date: May 5, 2007
Helpful: 16 of 17
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good but not perfect
Content:
I bought this camera after much research. I looked at everyone's reviews including the "professional ones". I am happy with this camera. It takes great pictures. Now, having said that I will tell you about the little bugs, or things that I don't like about the camera.. things others didn't talk about...
  First, there are a LOT of automatic settings on this camera. They cover just about any situation that you could want. The problem with this is that there is no control over some of the menu items in these. I would like to take a macro shot of a orange/pink tulip, but it comes out RED because I can't adjust the Saturation, Sharpness, Contrast, or even the Natural/ Vivid color.. So I have to do it manually which is a bit tiresome. So the menus that are NOT avaliable during scene & automatic modes affects the outcome of the photo.
  Secondly.. If you shoot in any quality other than RAW, you might as well just throw the included software in the garbage. It only touches up & manipulates RAW images. There is nothing on the disc to help out with jPeg files. That is a waste. 
  Third... & this is just a minor thing.  I usually take landscape photos, & the ISO only goes down to 200. My olympus point & shoot C-765 goes down to an ISO of 64. Who needs ISO of 3200 when the shutter speed gives a range of 30 seconds to 1/4000 of a second. Just seems as though they went too high with the ISO.
   Overall I am really happy with my purchase. I just wish that Pentax would have written the software to manipulate the photo while I am taking it so I don't have to sit at my computer all day dinking with it.. & yes, I said DINKING!! It is called digital photography, not computer photography!!! The anti shake seems to work well, & the lens takes good pictures. Good camera, just with a few problems.. or rather bugs..
             James