ID: B000IHN8AO-R19UV0LOCC3VF-A2QC1Y8HM7RIIV
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-10-2MP-Digital-Camera-Reduction
ReviewerID: A2QC1Y8HM7RIIV
ReviewerName: John Freeman
Date: March 15, 2007
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best value in pro-am DSLR cameras
Content:
I bought my K10D in Dec 06 after owning a number of Pentax cameras over the years and being very pleased with the engineering. The combination of features, if executed properly, make this camera the best buy in 10MP DSLRs right now.  I postponed my review because I wanted to get some real field experience.  I just went to Mexico, and panicked because I left the camera instruction manual behind.  I can now report on that trip. I did a little fumbling at first, mainly because I didn't have the manual, but I was soon able to find the combinations I wanted, and the camera performed both flexibly and intuitively.  The AF button and the exposure compensation button are very well placed.  I found myself in difficult lighting situations often, and both AF and exposure metering worked quite well.  I also took some hand-held shots that I normally would use a tripod with (such as at 450mm), and very few came out fuzzy because of camera movement.  In a few cases, I used bracketing, and was easily able to obtain a good balance of details in one or more of the bracketed shots.  Exposure metering worked so well that I stopped bracketing.  I particularly liked the display modes: I could boost the brightness to see the display even in bright daylight, and deep zooming gave me a good check of whether a shot was "soft" or not right at the scene.  The rechargeable Li Ion batteries, although not readily available in stores, seem to last forever (even using power zoom, and full-bright display, and some fill flash).  I believe that I could have shot all week (700 shots in RAW (DNG) + JPEG) with the battery grip attached. In summary, this camera was a pleasure to hold, very easy to use and manipulate, and resulted in a high percentage of crisp photos (even if the percentage of well-composed shots was lower because of the photographer).  I bought it because of its compatibility with Pentax lenses, 10MP sensor, shake-reduction technology, larger display, and especially the dust and water seals.  But what makes me quite happy about it is its overall ease of use and good results.  I am still discovering its features, but I already know that this camera frees me to be creative in ways that other cameras have not in the past.  Some of the features on this camera are unique (new program lines) and some are available only on cameras costing several hundred dollars more, making the K10D a good choice and a best buy.  Once again for Pentax, the engineering is supurb.