ID: B00005MF9C-R1TLRDNYK499LQ-AOL3OBSLM146Z
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-DCM18S-Personal-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: AOL3OBSLM146Z
ReviewerName: K. Thunga "maverick"
Date: January 28, 2005
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Nice Product - You get what you paid for
Content:
I ordered this product through amazon.com. bought it at a good price of $14.99.
This is a good product. What you get is a simple but effective drip system to brew your coffee. Don't expect this product to be equivalent in quality to some of the high priced coffee makers in the market. you get what you paid for. 
General points:
--> Make sure you have coarsely ground(i.e.drip system suitable) cofee beans. otherwise you may find some ground in your coffee. I use Folgers and it works fine.
--> To clean...all you have to do is remove the filter and hold it under the tap upside down. and there goes all the residue down the drain...that simple.
--> The stainless cup has a plastic based inner lining...it may smell of plastic in the beginning(like mine did)...so, what I did was wash it a few times with hot water till that smell diminished. Now, I do not have any smell or taste of plastic(as was the complaint of some reviewers) in my coffee. 
--> This coffee maker shuts off automatically after all the water pours into your cup. Other reviewers have complained that this mechanism doesn't work properly but I haven't faced any problem with it till now.
+ Very useful if you are the only coffee drinker in your home or office.
+ permanent coffee filter...so, no need of paper filters anymore.
+ Easy to clean.
+ brews pretty quickly...to give you coffee in abt 2-3 mins.
I would have liked this product even better if the opening on the lid of the cup had a mechanism to be locked so tht I can carry it around in my bag or something instead of holding the cup upright all the time. Also, better insulation of heat would have received high appreciation from me.
All in all, I liked this product. It's been only a few days since I purchased this product. I do not know how long the product will last. That only time will tell.