ID: B000VJX7DW-R1OID98YH4R3U8-AFYHI7VU26AWL
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D300-12-3MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: AFYHI7VU26AWL
ReviewerName: T. Young "Know it all"
Date: August 1, 2008
Helpful: 13 of 13
Rating: 5.0
Title: Went from Canon, to Leica to THIS!
Content:
I am one of those guys who finds a brand and sticks with it.  I have been using Canon's for 12 years.  I have had everything from a Canon EOS 1N, to a 1V, 1D, 1D Mark IIN, etc.  But I gave up on Canon because they didn't have camera bodies that were light, or small enough but also took amazing photos.  I switched from Canon to Leica and bought the $5,000 M8.  A truly incredible machine worthy of the high price tag.  But it was limited.  I found after using it for several months that I had gotten used to having all the latest bells and whistles that the new digital SLRs have.
So, I spend countless hours researching what Canon to get.  Luckily, I needed a camera with auto focus for a shoot and my friend loaned me her D300.  I can honestly say that it was love at first sight.  I had only had the Leica for a couple of weeks, but I knew at that moment I had to ditch it.
The D300 has just about everything I'm looking for in a camera.  Yes, I would love it if it could fit into my shirt pocket, be as light as a feather, etc.  But it isn't.  It is however, when paired with my Nikon 17-55mm DX lens about 1.2 pounds lighter than my Canon EOS 1D Mark IIN when paired with the Canon 24-70mm L lens.  And I have to say, I think this is as capable, if not more capable than that camera and lens system.  The shots I have gotten from it are unlike anything else I've taken.  They have a depth and clarity that I rarely got from my Canon gear.  
Here are my plus points:
1.  The feel of the camera.  It sits in your hands nicely and you know you're holding something strong and robust. 
2.  All of the latches, seals, doors, etc. are nice and tight.  They don't feel like plastic, but like a composite of some kind.  Everything snaps nicely into place without protest. 
3.  Images are extremely sharp and the color rendition is incredible. 
4.  It's size.  It's not so small and light that you think you're going to break it.  But not so big that you wouldn't want to bring it everywhere with you.
5.  There are so many dials and buttons right at your finger tips.  It takes longer to learn than my trusty old Canon system did, but once I got the hang of it, it was easy. 
6.  The 3" display is a marvel.  It makes my images sing!
7.  The dust removal system.  Haven't had a lot of time to test this out, but if it works, it's great.  It doesn't take more than a second and makes almost no noise. 
8.  The shutter seems much quieter than my Canon.  It is definitely much quieter than my Leica which sounded like a plane landing. 
That's about it.  I just really love it.  Well done Nikon! With this I believe they can overtake Canon in sales and if not in sales, than in customer satisfaction. 
No Canon has felt like this in my hands except for the $4,000 1D models which are bears to carry around.  I won't lie and say the D300 is the best SLR out there.  The Canon EOS 1Ds Mark III is world beyond this, but it's $8,000.  And no one needs 21.1mp.  The Nikons 12.3mp will satisfy anyone for many years to come.  Very large enlargements can be made from this camera.  My website www.tayloryoungphotography.com will be showcasing many photos taken with this beauty.  I promise!