ID: B000AQSMPO-R33DCV0LW831F1-A1O3WXVFVIU0I1
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-B60-Special-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing
ReviewerID: A1O3WXVFVIU0I1
ReviewerName: Red, White, and Blue "Coffee Man"
Date: February 26, 2008
Helpful: 9 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: B60 or B70, that is the question
Content:
I've had a B40 for over a year. The machine has operated flawlessly. I used it in my cigar store and it brewed at least 10 cups a day, that's a lot of use. 
There is no better engineered single-serve coffemaker. My B40 has never let me down for over a year and it looks and works as good as the day I bought it (except for the calcium buildup on the inside of the water tank, but that's not the Keurig's fault). The K-cups cost about $.40 each through Amazon and they have a long shelf-life. The coffee will never be as good as fresh ground at home or Starbucks, but it's pretty, pretty, pretty, good (to quote Larry David).
Cleanup is as good as cleanup will ever get, this point is not emphasized enough, there's no mess whatsoever. Just remember to tilt the k-cup sideways when taking it out after brewing. "No runs, no drips, no errors."
I only buy "extra-bold" cups myself and I find them just right. Tully's French Roast is one of my favorites, the Timothy's extra bold are a close second. I've read complaints about the coffee not being strong enough, but I just don't buy that. It's plenty strong for me, I like strong coffee, and I drink my coffee black. It's not as strong as a coffee shop, but it's not stale either. I can't tell you how many times I've gotten an old cup at local coffee shops. My wife finds the extra bold too strong and I run a second cycle using the same K-cup, and create a nine or ten ounce cup for her.
As far as the noise, I'm confused by some of the comments I've read. It makes noise, but its not unbearable and its takes less than a minute. I've never had an issue with the noise or vibration. Yes it's fairly noisy, but that noise is the pump. What do these people expect? I've had a few manual pump-driven espresso machines and they're just as noisy, please disregard comments about noise.
Bottom line, best single-serve coffeemaker on the market by a landslide. Now the only question for me is B60 or B70. The B70 looks great, but the main difference seems to be an extra large cup selection and a larger water tank. I'm going to buy one of them for sure.
If Keurig ever designs an E.S.E. pod machine I'm buying one of those too. Do you hear me Keurig?