ID: B000981H6O-R3MNRQZVJ9306Z-A3CIILYZOSMV10
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S1120-Hand-Vacuum-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A3CIILYZOSMV10
ReviewerName: Kaushik Lodh
Date: December 4, 2005
Helpful: 34 of 49
Rating: 3.0
Title: not bad, not too good
Content:
Hello, 
Hoover makes mediocre vacuum cleaners, its like the chevy of vacuum cleaners, there are lexuses, acuras, benzes, lamborginis... several better categories available, but at equivalent prices. So this is the run of the mill model, nothing exciting, but it gets the job done.
This one has mediocre suction power. Period. 
I purchased this unit for quick clean ups, like when there is a spill, or cigarrette ash on the carpet. Circumstances which are localized and thus do not require the services of the floor model. I dont like lugging around a huge floor model and all its associated wires when I want to clean an area of about 2 feet by 2 feet. This vacuum cleaner does that, albiet tediously.
It is bagless (DUH!), but when it is filled up a little, it looses suction power BIG time, and you will either need to empty its chamber or repeatedly run the vacuum over the same spot to pick up even the most exposed and easy to pick up particles. And that makes me mad. 
See, its not that easy to clean.... Firstly, when you pour out its contents, you get the dust blowing all over the place, its like moving the dust from the living room to the kitchen where the main dust bin is. And the dust doesnt come out easily, thats because of 2 reasons: 
1) When you open the translucent plastic outer cover, you will find the filter to be made of 2 parts, a hard plastic outer cover, then a fabric type inner filter. 
Now the hard plastic cover shields the inner fabric in such a way that the dust is trapped in between them. You will need to seperate the 2 and only then will the dust fully pour out. And thats MESSY! Because you need to apply some force to seperate the two, and finally when they do seperate, with a jerk, the dust flies all over the place! And not to mention you having to touch that messy, filthy filter with your hands and thus getting it all over yourself too! 
2) The fabric holds on to the dust... its fabric type, naturally it has pores and pores mean dust will get wedged and will be hard to remove. So you will have to tap it against the rim of the dust bin... and get that mess flying all over the place.
Hoover employs bad engineers, they dont have much design sense. Their new telios canister model is an equal disaster. They try to make a product, but miss out on the most obvious details which might be important to the user. 
This hand vac is yet another perfect example. It picks up dirt from one room and you end up moving that dirt to another room where you empty this vacuum.
But it has some features which are useful. It has a wall holder with the battery recharge unit plugging in to it. It has a standard adapter, and a cylindrical jack which goes in to the vacum to recharge the battery. Now this jack can be fitted in to the wall holder in such a way that when you mount the vacuum cleaner on the holder, the jack is connected in, and the vacuum cleaner recharges.
Thats a useful feature, in case you want to or dont want to use the wall mounted holder, you can still recharge it. 
It does pick up liquid, but it has mediocre suction power. And same is true for dirt too. The real loss in suction power is when the filter is filled up. The battery power is a major contributor to determining the suction power, a corded vacuum would be more powerful, but equally bothersome to use. For small jobs, the amount of power it provides is enough. 
It does look nice though, but it is a bit large, too large to be carried in side the automobile. Maybe a RV, but not a car or SUV. But small enough to be conviniently used around the house.
So should you buy it? I dont know, it is convinient, it does help to keep the house clean with the emergency spot clean ups. It is tedious, but it does get the job done. And its not too cheap, but not overly expensive either. And honestly, I would prefer hoover over any vacuum cleaner that Billy Mays is yelling about in a TV infomercial. Its my personal way of protesting against stupid people wasting every one's time by marketing stupid products for stupid buyers.
My advise would be, buy this, try it out. Then return it, get a different model from a different manufacturer, try that out too. See what you like better. With competition only from other lame brands like black and decker, you dont have much choice in the hand held vacuum market.