ID: B000OWL61G-R2P6I87XQ76MJE-A3O0EZX7AGYNWS
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: KitchenAid-KCM534ER-JavaStudio-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3O0EZX7AGYNWS
ReviewerName: S. Ratliff
Date: March 21, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Fix the design flaws yourself or pay more
Content:
I have had my coffee maker for 4 years with a few issues. It is an older model of course but very similar in features and appearance. Some of the problems others are having are also similar to what I was experiencing. I have not had any error messages however. I believe preventative maintenance may have prevented some of those issues.  
As for the coffee pouring out all over the counter top, I also determined, after only a few days of owning, that turning the coffee pot so the handle is straight out fixed the symptom but did not solve the design flaw. The pour lip on the coffee pot pushes on a valve in the back of the housing when the handle is straight out. The valve and lever is part of the "pause and pour feature" which allows you to remove the coffee pot and pour a cup of coffee before brewing is complete. The valve the pot pushes on while the pot is on the warmer opens the stopper under brew basket. If this valve does not open all the way, the water will over flow the brew basket and pour out past a slot where the valve lever pivots in the back and top of the pot housing. I determined the spring behind the valve was pushing the light empty pot of coffee out far enough on the warmer to allow the valve to shut off the drip and therefore overflowing the brew basket. I solved this problem by disabling this feature all together and taking out the spring. Now it does not matter if I have the pot handle straight out or not. No more problems with this maker since. I can not speak to any design improvements they may have made to the newer models. 
The old saying that you get what you pay for holds true here as well.  In my opinion, if you want a maker with little or no design flaws, you are going to have to spend more than $100.00.