ID: B000AQSMPO-R318CRUBVI0PSV-A333VTQE0G2W59
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-B60-Special-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing
ReviewerID: A333VTQE0G2W59
ReviewerName: David Hilliard "Helevitia"
Date: March 18, 2007
Helpful: 13 of 19
Rating: 2.0
Title: If it made stronger coffee it would be near perfect
Content:
I'm not saying anything that hasn't already been said.  This coffee maker makes weak coffee.  That is a huge bummer as everything else about this machine is awesome!  Unfortunately, without "strong enough" coffee then the rest doesn't matter in my opinion since that is the whole point of buying a coffee maker.  You buy a coffee maker to have the cup of coffee that makes the most sense to you and if it doesn't live up to that, then it is worthless.
That said, let me say that if you like weak to almost medium coffee, then you will absolutely love this coffee maker.  As a bonus, it also makes tea and hot water for hot chocolate.  The water is heated up unbelievably fast(I'd say about a minute from pressing the power button to "ready to brew").  After that, you get a cup of coffee in seconds.  Less than a minute for sure, probably less than 30 seconds.  
The LCD screen is extremely easy to read and looks appealing with it's blue glow.  The entire machine is attractive and easy to look at.  The buttons are easy to understand and every type of cup I put under the drip portion, fit fine even with the spill plate underneath.  
I really wanted to love this coffee maker, but it falls short in the "perfect" cup of coffee dept.  I tried all of the strong coffee's such as Van Houtte Eclipse Extra Bold Coffee, Timothys Rainforest Espresso Extra Bold Coffee, Green Mountain Dark Magic Extra Bold Coffee, a bunch of others.  None of them are even kind of strong.  I would consider them slightly less than medium.  The weaker coffees are like drinking coffee flavored water and adding any milk or sugar(even minute amounts) destroys any coffee flavor that might have been there to begin with.
Now, I only drink one cup of coffee a day, sometimes two.  So I am not this huge coffee drinker and I can even skip a day here and there.  I wouldn't consider myself a coffee snob, but I'm getting there ;)
I think the last important thing to mention is that I used to drink a lot of Starbucks and they make strong coffee.  Yes, I know it's bitter as well, but you can't deny the strong coffee they make.  
Bottom line:
Pros
-Coffee maker is easy to use
-Tea is an added bonus 
-Attractive machine
Cons
-very weak coffee (I deducted 3 stars for this alone)
-temp only goes up to 192 degrees for the water(I like it hotter)
-9.25 ounces is the largest cup you can make