ID: B0000SWAC8-R2LQ45WVI2UNVB-A2OZF0CZIKXMAO
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL6988D-Oxygen3-Canister-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A2OZF0CZIKXMAO
ReviewerName: ClosetCritic "1st time reviewer"
Date: March 26, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: A great vaccum, but a bit fragile
Content:
I got this Oxygen to replace a Kenmore canister that was about 8 years old, so some of this review will be a comparison between the oxygen and Kenmore-like canisters.
1)  The suction on this Oxygen is tremendous, it's quite a bit more powerful than the Kenmore.  It gets everything off the floor without any trouble, and at times it's even too powerful.  When using the brush attachment, if you don't angle the brush to the side, the suction just plants the entire brush onto whatever surface your cleaning, kinda like a suction cup, and it actually takes some effort to pry it off.
2)  Even though Electrolux's website doesn't say so, this Oxygen comes with a bare floor brush that is 14 inches wide.  As long as you don't have a lot of furniture to maneuver around, it will make very short work of a smooth surface floor.
3)  The quiet factor.  This vacuum is extremely quiet (as far as vacuums go).  The whine of the motor is far more quiet than the Kenmore, and even with it running just 15 feet down the hall, it sounds like it's several rooms away.  The noise from the carpet head is noisier than the vacuum itself.
4)  Carpet cleaning ability on the Oxygen is very good.  The powerhead really digs into the carpet, and like the other reviewers said, it can take off on you.  Only it keeps pulling to the left, sort of like driving a car with bad alignment, but that's just a minor annoyance.
5)  The Oxygen arrived about 1 week after I ordered it, it assemble in about 3 nanoseconds (slight exaggeration), and it even came with a total of 3 bags.  It also has the Hepa filter installed.  The handle can stow 2 attachments, the crevice tool and the brush, so you just have to carry the upholstery brush and barefloor brush along.
6)  The exhaust coming out of the exhaust port is very clean.  I used to sneeze a few times after using the Kenmore, but after using the Oxygen, I have not sneezed at all.  This is a must have for folks with allergies.  Also the exhaust vent is on the top of the machine, so you can stand it upright to vacuum without obstructing the exhaust.
7)  The design is so cool.  The color reminds me almost of a hotrod orange, and the unit is very compact and doesn't take up much space in the closet.  Also a must have for small condos.
Now some mythbusting regarding some of the negative reviews I read.  I was a little skeptical about getting this vacuum after reading some of the negative reviews about flimsy connectors and cheap wands.  Here's what I found:
1)  There are metal prongs that connect the canister body to the hose, then the hose to one end of the wand, then the other end of the wand to the carpet head.  The only connection that might create a problem is between the canister and the hose.  The connection is a bit weak, and this could be a problem if you're yanking and tugging on the hose with all your strength.  I've use the vacuum 3 times so far, and as long as you're not terribly rough, the hose connection feels like it will hold OK.
2)  Another person mentioned the wand flexes and bends when using the carpet head and the attachments fall off too easily.  True, the wand is plastic, but the construction is decent (not fantastic), and again, as long as you're not putting all of your strength into it, it feels like it should hold up for a while.  And the attachments, they must have fallen off because they weren't pushed onto the handle far enough.  All I had to do was attach them securely, and none of them have fallen off yet.
3)  If you want a sturdier vacuum that you can drag down the stairs, then look elsewhere.  But if you're OK with being just a little careful with it, this Oxygen works very well.
Overall: a solid performer when it comes to doing what a vacuum is supposed to do.  It cleans extremely well, it's quiet, small, and doesn't leave behind a bigger mess than before you started.  You just have to be a little careful with it and it should do well.