ID: B000A33B1C-R37BLUM2C4LVEQ-AIAP3X62CLH6F
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Delonghi-TRD0715T-Safe-Oil-Filled-Radiator
ReviewerID: AIAP3X62CLH6F
ReviewerName: Hypnosis4U2NV
Date: November 30, 2007
Helpful: 15 of 15
Rating: 5.0
Title: Efficient heat at an affordable price!
Content:
I have a 15x15 room which gets colder than any of the other rooms because of a bad window.  I needed a heater that would not send my electric bill skyrocketing and by keeping the room at a comfortable constant temperature without getting it too hot or dry.  The Delonghi TRD0715T does an excellent job without hitting your pockets hard. I use the timer and thermostat control during the evening hours and on the lowest setting and its still able to keep the room comfortably warm. The oil in the unit continues to radiate heat long after the timer shuts it down. The thermostat prevents it from starting should the room already be at the temperature you preset.  The Delonghi uniformally heats the room unlike radiant heaters and forced air heaters. Ive been using it for 2 months and its working great and is saving me money. While the unit uses 600, 900 and 1100 watts I would also start with the lowest setting first before moving up to the highest just to see if the unit can heat your room at a lower setting. Why wouldnt you use a lower setting if you can achieve the same results without unnecessarly using a higher one. People should realize that this is still a small unit good for bedrooms and any other small rooms.  This MAY NOT be enough heat large living rooms or basements. Those rooms may require larger and more powerful units to heat.
Theres one thing people should know about this unit that has been mentioned here.  The unit gives off a plastic smell when you operate the first time. The manual states you should operate this unit on HIGH in a well ventilated area for about an hour or two to burn off the coating. I did this and the unit does not emit any smell at all. Make sure no peices of shipping foam get caught between the radiator fins otherwise they may melt and emit a plastic smell over continued use.  
Cons: I would like a digital thermostat setting or dial style that includeds temprature selection.  With this unit you have to get the room to the temperature you want and then slowly set the temperature dial back till you hear the unit click off.  It will then keep the temperature the room at that setting. When using the timer function, be sure you dont try to push the timer tab to on while its on the current time marker. Youll need to turn the dial away from the marker before selecting it otherwise you may break it off.