ID: B00008UI0R-R1SPTZD6CBVKTJ-A2B09ZVCD53P80
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A2B09ZVCD53P80
ReviewerName: j mack
Date: December 18, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: FOLKS, THIS IS THE DEAL FOR THE BEST VACUUM
Content:
I needed a new vacuum since the old upright was ready to die and for the price, it lasted a lot longer than I expected.  Did some homework and checked out reviews, pics, etc and ran across this model on Amazon under a general search of VACUUMS.  The product was rated high and at a decent price,so I placed the order and in a couple of days I said HI to the UPS man. I cannot begin to tell you what a HUGE surprize I had.  THIS VAC IS THE DEAL! I spent some time cleaning the carpet in my bedroom with the old sweeper and it looked good.  HA...then used the Hoover.  I was absolutely amazed.  The small, fine dirt that this vacuum pulled out of the carpet was astounding.  Being the little bit of a skeptic anyway, I decided to put it to the ultimate test....my mother's house.  We all know the place....mom...perfect cleaner...house always spotless.  Now that she is older, she has a cleaning service that comes once a week (when they prove to her that they can clean (hehe)) and the service uses one of the "professional" vacuums.  This is the time of year for her grand Christmas party and I offered to vacuum her living/dining room carpet after the cleaning service had been there the day before.  She said it was clean, but I wanted to see how well the new Hoover would stack up against the professionals.  As Lily Tomblin would say as her Ernestine The Telephone Operator character..."there's nothing better than a Hoover when dealing with dirt"  snort snort....how very true that iconic comedy line is.  As with other comments...it is a little bulky to drag around and the dirt cup has to be emptied frequently...but hey, for the outstanding cleaning ability of this machine...BUY IT FOLKS...*****stars....