ID: B000NVVDKC-R78E1VB7RE9YH-A1HFR35HDKQ0IX
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Evolt-Digital-Camera-Stabilization
ReviewerID: A1HFR35HDKQ0IX
ReviewerName: A. M. G. Lennon
Date: August 8, 2007
Helpful: 41 of 42
Rating: 5.0
Title: Everything it says it is
Content:
I've owned this camera (with the 2 lens kit) for about a week now and have spent this time getting to know it. It's exactly what I expected - which is a good thing. The IS works well - don't expect too much though, a tripod is still required in many situations - and the good performance at high ISOs (something previous Olympus dSLRs were often criticized for) combined with this gives you more options in more situations. People who have owned the e-500 have consistently said that the high-ISO prformance on the e-510 is much improved. I cannot comment on this or make a comparison, but I do think that the high-ISO performance (and many people underestimate how important this is) is excellent and the equal of its competitors. 
Liveview works as advertised, it takes some getting used to due to the special properties involved but can be very useful in some situations (i.e. macros (which I don't take) or low-light situations w/ tripod using MF on the liveview zoom). It is also very nice being able to see a live histogram. The LCD screen doesn't tilt out but again, truth in advertising, you can see it well in direct sunlight (if a little dark) and indoors you can see it at ridiculous angles. It is important to remember, however, that this does not work in the same way as it does on a P&S. The mirror must flip up in order for the camera to focus, resulting in lag times that are often longer than the typical compact camera. One of the main advantages of a dSLR is the speed that can be achieved both for focusing and framing shots. In other words, for those of you taking a step up to dSLRs, this camera is not meant to be used using Liveview as the main way to set up your photos. What it is, is another option providing you with more flexibility and the possibility of getting certain shots that would be difficult/impossible without it.
Image quality in my opinion is quite good. In many reviews you are advised to turn off the Noise Reduction, and decrease sharpness (-2) to compensate and after fiddling around with these settings I agree. Remember to decrease sharpness across the board (Vivid, Muted etc). I would recommend only using noise reduction for very long shutter speeds.
The 3-point AF can seem limiting at first but if you take the time to frame your shots properly it is no hindrance. If anything it's making me consider this all important aspect more than I used to. And in other situations, when you don't have much time, the simplicity of it can be an advantage. Less is sometimes more. Focusing in dark lighting conditions can sometimes be difficult. In these circumstances, when stability is available, I like to use the LV enhancement + MF.
It is a comfortable camera to hold, and I especially like the ability to not only use the wheel but the 4-point controller to set things up while looking through the viewfinder. Once you get the hang of the menu layout it is actually much faster. 4/3 system makes sure both the body and the lenses don't break your back. Whether or not you like what this system offers, is a matter of personal choice. I use my camera almost exclusively for street and travel photography and so for me the decision makes itself.
The user interface is very intuitive, and I must say is a huge improvement over the last Olympus I owned (the C-8080wz - an absolutely fantastic P&S btw). It must be said that the excellent impression the previous Olympus I owned left on me was a factor in deciding to go for Olympus again this time.
RAW+SHQ are huge. I can fit 81 on a blank 2GB card. So make sure you have sufficient space. Write times are very good and the buffer space is excellent. I personally do not have a need for continuous shooting but those of you who do will be happy with this camera's capabilities. Battery life is also another plus, it takes a while to charge, but lasts very long.
Canon and Nikon will always dominate the market but thankfully there are other companies pushing the envelope in other directions, which ultimately benefits us, the consumers. And Olympus is foremost among them.
With excellent image quality and good high ISO performance, a quality build (though it uses plastic it feels much less "plasticky" than much of the competition), the best kit lenses available, good ergonomics and low weight and a (in my opinion) very user friendly menu system, the e-510 is a fantastic camera and I do not hesitate to recommend it. Personally, it is ideal, for the type of photographer I am and the types of pictures I take. But combined with its trifecta of features not offered (together) on any other dSLR in this price range (liveview, IS in body, effective dust reduction), Olympus have really hit a home run.
I wonder what the reaction (and sales) would be like if Canon or Nikon produced a camera like this. And I wonder why they haven't.