ID: B000JO1IPI-R3GRHOHI6M716S-A1FQT962MTI4TN
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-classic-Black-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A1FQT962MTI4TN
ReviewerName: Alex Mitchell
Date: September 7, 2007
Helpful: 11 of 25
Rating: 5.0
Title: Breaking my rule...
Content:
I am going to break my own rule here and review a product that I do not yet own. And yes I plan on owning this one. Thanks to many of the other reviewers for the nice additional info that they have supplied.
Technology just gets better and costs just go down. It has always been that way. For those reviewers that are bemoaning the fact that something came out that is better than what they previously purchased, do not ding the product for it in your rating! I am not an early adopter for that reason. 
Apple has done for us what Sony did with the walkman many years (Decades!) ago. It has made music even more portable and accessible. You can gripe and moan all you want about the size of the screen or brightness or small controls or any of the numerous complaints I have heard. The plain and simple fact is that this is a COOL INVENTION!
Along with [...] and satellite radio we now have a nearly complete freedom of choice in what we listen to and where and when. Will this model be revised and improved with the wi-fi access to i-tunes? I sure hope so. In the meantime 160 GB is a huge leap and suits me and my collection just fine.
The cost is high at first glance, but I paid $[...] for my first walkman and had to labor over my first tape mixes with a turntable and Amplifier and well, that was actually a lot of fun, but I was limited to 45 to 60 minute sides and had to actually flip the tape. How primitive!
40 hours of music that I personally load? Amazing my friends!
I give the product five stars based on the fact that other iPod products are high quality (yes I have used several, just not purchased any yet) and also the general trend for improvment by Apple in this area. Also, I give five stars in an attempt to offset the "hubris" of other reviewers who seem to have taken some bizarre moral and ethical dislike to 160GB of memory, believing that somehow global warming and world crises are linked to people enjoying themselves. They must have fallen over too many times and hit themselves in the head.