ID: B000TQEDE4-R3TQGOFXXMR0YR-A1OEQP3GWNG263
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1150BK-Programmable-Thermal-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1OEQP3GWNG263
ReviewerName: Matthew Dunphy
Date: May 11, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great but for a few annoyances
Content:
Let's face it, a coffee maker is a pretty well-known piece of gear, so there's no need to talk about what it does right, and you can get that from the other reviews. The short of it is that it makes great coffee just fine and it has all the features listed, they're not lying. The only thing worth commenting on are the bad things that might be dealbreakers for you, so here are those as I've experienced it.
The LCD is unreadable at any distance short of sticking your nose in it. It's not backlit, and it's got a recessed mounting, so in anything other than extremely bright and straight-on light, as in pointing a flashlight at it, you're not going to be able to even make out the digits. I have the black model which probably makes it worse, but this LCD is just bad. It's both small and poorly set.  
I upgraded to this from a backlit single-cup maker from Starbucks, and you could literally read that from the next room. An LCD done right does come in handy, saying when it's done or that it's set for auto or how old the coffee is, as well as being a backup clock in the kitchen. This LCD is not done right, simple as that.
The other major thing that isn't done right is the carafe. Seriously. It's kind of like pouring liquid out of a box with a small hole in the top. Eventually you're going to have to turn it totally upside down to get what's in there out of it. 
This has nothing to do with the pouring spout or the lid--it pours at the same slow-trickle rate even when the lid is totally off. It's the shape of the interior itself that's the problem here. You will have to turn it upside down to empty it and if you do, you will splash the last eighth of a cup of whatever's currently in there, guaranteed. It's also a tad small, so if you're a big drinker or there's more than one of you, get the bigger model. There's maybe 3 travel mugs or 4 regular mugs worth in it at max.
Other than that, it's a crying shame because every other aspect of this coffeemaker is spot-on. Water filtration, easy to clean, permanent coffee filter, would be easy to fill without the abominable carafe, easy to program. Would definitely be one of the best ones out there if not for the above annoyances.