ID: B000NVXF30-R2C30P181P6KR7-A23GW66IOI3RAN
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Digital-Stabilization-14-42mm-40-150mm
ReviewerID: A23GW66IOI3RAN
ReviewerName: Rob
Date: January 23, 2008
Helpful: 9 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: As close to perfect as possible...
Content:
Well, I'm fairly new to dSLR cameras. The Olympus Evolt E-510 is actually my very first SLR of any kind. BUT! Like others have said, before I bought the E-510, I must of researched all the cameras in the price range for maybe 6-8 full months. So at this point, I feel like I'm an expert. 
Well...I fell into the dSLR market, perhaps like others, while I was one day watching a New York Giants football game on TV...when a Canon Rebel xti commercial came on. It was a beautiful commercial that started out saying, "Why do we like football...?" By the end of that commercial I was hooked. I wanted the Canon Rebel xti more than anything in the world, and I made that quite clear to my loved ones as well; as my birthday was steadily approaching. 
Anyway...I immediately went to 6th Avenue electronics to try to get one in my hands, but when I got there, the battery for the xti was out of juice, and they had no way of juicing it at all. (Which was a huge bummer...) Anyway, I talked to the sales guy and he showed me a number of dSLR's (the usual suspects) in that same price range. (The Nikon D40x, the Sony Alpha a100 or whatever it is, the Pentax K10 and K100, and the beautiful Olympus Evolt E-510, and maybe a couple others...)
In any case... In the next couple of weeks, I went from store to store playing with every one for hours, and hearing the pros and cons of each from the sales people. After that, I stayed home and researched all day and all night on all the different cameras, at which time I was becoming more and more intrigued with the E-510. 
The sales people kept telling me that the in-camera image stabilization was so important because if I got another camera, I'd only be able to get it in some über-expensive lenses. While on the other hand, my father, who was a high school photography teacher for years and years, told me in-camera IS wasn't that important unless I was to going to be shooting with a super-long telephoto lenses. 
IN ANY CASE.... After months and months of research and playing and trying out the different cameras, I decided I was finally just gonna close my eyes, bite my lip, and go for the Olympus E-510. 
And let me just say... It was absolutely the best decision I've made in a LOONG time... 
The E-510, in my opinion, is the most beautiful, remarkable camera in the under $1000 price range. Possibly even better than a few more expensive cameras... The E-510's pictures come out beautiful and crisp and can be adjusted in a myriad of ways. It has just soo many wonderful features, and each one is completely useful! It's not stuffed with a bunch of silly settings. It just simply comes with useful ones that are going to help you get the best picture possible. 
I really don't understand the people who have such huge problems with the camera. I honestly think they must have defective ones. It is just a simply remarkable camera. And don't be afraid of the settings! Some reviewers are saying, although this camera has the most, and most useful settings and features, the camera is not all that easy to use. I just simply do not find that true. When I first started learning about this camera, I didn't know what bracketing was, or what the different metering settings or white balance settings meant. But to be honest, the manual that came with the camera is quite good...It not only explains how to use each setting, but it also explains what each setting means. AND it has a bunch of photography tips in it too... It's pretty useful, especially for a beginner. 
The whole camera is great...The settings are in abundance, the picture quality is great (especially with a little tweaking), the feel of the camera is awesome (by the way..it's super light!), and the 2 kit lenses it comes with are SWEEEET!!! Also, the in-camera stabilization works awesome, apparently the dust removal system is proven to be the best on the market! PROVEN PEOPLE!!! That's awesome... 
Oh! And I have a great time shooting in low light. Once you get the hang of using this camera, you'll find you can do most anything with it. And do it well... Oh and, I had some trouble finding reviews and what-not of a few things I was interested in finding out like...how fast the camera is. And actually in this price-range of cameras, the continuous shooting mode is a tad faster than all the rest at like 3.09 per second, or something like that. But although I don't exactly know the exact numbers to all this...the continous shooting and shot-to-shot times of this camera is really, really great. 
Actually, I have a little niece and nephew, and it's quite difficult to get a 1 year old boy to sit there and smile into the camera... You have to follow the little guy around and shoot, and although almost ALL the pictures are in the focus because the built-in IS, it's still hard to get a GREAT shot of a 1 year old going crazy on a sugar high. So I just follow him around and snap, snap, snap the shutter button over-and-over-and-over again. Like I said, the shot-to-shot time is really great. And the buffer size must be pretty huge too because I was able to take a shot after shot after shot, whether shooting normally, or putting the camera in burst mode; the camera never slowed down for a second. You won't be dissapointed with that. In case you are knew to all this... The buffer is basically the place in which all your photos are kept before they are written to the memory card...
So all-in-all, I really love this camera. Most everything about it. And just a personal tip...Read the real good reviews of the E-510 and read those reviewers pros and cons. I find they tend to be pretty accurate with the little cons there actually are with this camera.  And don't read the real bad reviews AT ALL... They are just plain and simply wrong... I don't know if those people all got defective cameras or what, but they are just wrong. I guess there are different tastes out there, but to just completely bash the E-510...it just is wrong...
And just one more thing... I know there are A LOT of reviews out there by all kinds of reviewers. But I honestly believe you should trust me. Especially newcomers to d-SLR's who really don't know much of anything about these types of cameras... The other people have already formed different opinions about what they like and don't like, and they can just figure out which camera is right for them on there own. But for the others... I had wished when I was researching someone would just plain make the decision for me. 'cAuse I was just so overwhelmed with all the choices and different features... So here I go, just saying trust me. Let me decide for you... Choose this camera. Unless you get a defective one somehow..I truly believe you won't be dissapointed. And with all the settings, and what I think is easy to use, you will have a long while to have fun learning it all. And if you just plain get frusterated and just want to take a darn picture, well there are PLENTY of automatic settings for you. So again...Just trust me. You'll love this decision in the end. This is a superb dSLR in my opinion, abd I haven't even once since I've purchased it, thought to myself, maybe I should have gotten that other camera...
Anyway...I'm actually Rob. For some reason Amazon wouldnt take my name and password. They kept giving me my mothers account even though they had a button that said, " If this isn't Barbara, click here." It just wouldnt work. So just for your 411...I'm Rob, not Barbara.    
Good luck and good choosing everyone!!!     - Rob
Hmmm...I can't think of anything to say