ID: B000VX7VJO-R2KO5W2XVCCK0K-A1RJV5UGBHOSLG
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Breville-BKC600XL-Gourmet-Single-Cup-Coffee
ReviewerID: A1RJV5UGBHOSLG
ReviewerName: dessny "dessny"
Date: April 9, 2008
Helpful: 12 of 12
Rating: 5.0
Title: Way better than Keurig brand
Content:
I bought a Keurig brand coffee maker about 4 years ago. Loved it! 5 of my friends bought them! I figure, for the coffee kick my husband was on, it paid for itself in a couple of months. He would either make a whole pot in the evening, drink one cup, then make a fresh pot later on in the evening. OR drive to Dunkin Doughnuts and buy coffee and doughnuts there. Once we didn't have to go thru all that, he could drink fresh coffee all night for a fraction of the time and money.  So what this comes down to is, I love k-cups!
Eventually, the old brewer stopped working. After ALOT of research in all price ranges kcups and pods, for the best tasting coffee, I decided to get this Breville.  One, because of the water filter; two, because of so many great reviews; and another, because Breville makes great quality products.  This brewer is $299, consider that they make $175 TOASTERS! That makes this feel alot less expensive.  Plus, Bed Bath and Beyond has all of those 20% off coupons, that saves you $60!
It feels much better quality than the Keurig brand brewers.  The tank is much easier to get on and off. The blue tank light flashes when it needs water (I thought that was cute.) Stored in the top of the machine is a superior container for using your own ground coffee (vs. the open mesh cups you get for the other Keurig brewers). Pointless but cute is, the drip tray has a water level indicator to tell you when to empty it. The buttons are easier to understand if you dont know the machine. 
We have low cupboards and would have to pull the old brewer way out to put the kcup in because the whole top has to come way up. This one, only the front half has to come up, so we are able to leave it sitting in one place because only 1/2 of it needs to open instead of the whole top. 
About my only complaint is that its not smudge free stainless. Its constantly covered in fingerprints. A small price to pay.