ID: B000BY52NK-RGCZ6UGXPX091-A1UHH4IM7SX8UK
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D200-10-2MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A1UHH4IM7SX8UK
ReviewerName: VINCENT CHEN "Vincedog3"
Date: December 17, 2008
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Even if Nikon makes the D400 etc. I am keeping this camera.
Content:
What happens when you wanted a new at the time D2x or a D2Hs, but the $$$s just didn't make any sense. Buy the D200 instead and get some great glass instead. Unless you are a "pro" and getting paid big money, this D200 is just amazing. Had mine for 2 years and have banged it around, got it wet, hot, cold etc. this camera really just goes and goes. I am an amateur with no "Pro" pretensions but this camera is the D2x's little brother in that the chunky steel and magnesium sealed body, that is all switches dials and doors, this camera is set for the rigors of pro life. I think anyone thinking of using this camera for extended stints should also get the MB-D200 battery grip. Takes 2 of the Nikon EN-EL3 batteries or 6 AA batteries in a pinch with the adapter. The D200 in comparison with my older D70s loves battery power, though I have never run out of power especially with the battery grip before my shooting was done, it does make me concerned. Main reason why I carry 3 camera batteries and a ton of rechargeable AA batteries. In conjunction with the battery grip and the terrific Nikon SB-800 flash this camera is fabulous for special event picture taking like weddings, and also super for Museum photography as well. My trips to the Chino Air museum and the Boeing Museum of flight were just amazing with the D200. Airplanes taken with this camera are just amazing. I love engines and this camera renders the details just great. For fast action race car shooting this cameras 5 frames per second is great too.
A note about exposure. Don't underexpose and the "noise" that the D200 can produce will not harm your pictures. At higher ISO settings at underexposed images chromatic and luminance noise will rear its ugly head. A weakness of the CCD imager that is just about abandoned by Nikon. The D300 uses the CMOS imager with superior performance in the noise arena.
Unlike the lower cost D series Nikon's this D200 will take any autofocus lens whether it has a motor in the lens or not. The D40 and D60 family of cameras will not. The D200 has a built in motor for the lens focus drive built into the body. So while not perfect, I find that I make many more mistakes than my D200 ever does, however when I do what I am supposed to do, the D200 is absolutely amazing. 
Another note, since this is a "advanced" enthusiast's camera the "Scene" modes will be not present. I never use them and therefore don't miss them. 
The D200 also takes the Compact flash 1 and 2 format cards and IBM microdrive with no problems. However the camera is too old to understand ULTRA DMA cards so don't waste the money on those cards with this camera. With the Sandisk Extreme 3, 4 gig card this camera never let me down with a missed shot ever.
With a shutter speed of 1/8000th of a second and only a 1/250th flash sync speed (my D40 and older D70 had 1/500th second flash sync) you will do well to get that shot. 
Menus a plenty, take the time to get your D200 setup the way you want it and you will be glad you did. Custom menus abound, of which I found no use to me, but may be valuable to others. The menus while fairly clear are many and fortunately for most, it would be a one time setup affair.
The mirror lock up feature is nice to check depth of field, something I don't see on a lot of other cameras.
Durability and reliability have been excellent with no issues what so ever.
I read about an independent reviewer who dropped the camera about 5 feet to concrete on the grip and LCD status panel side, and the repair was only $250.00 or so. Pretty good performance since most cameras would be way worse.
Who wants this older camera vs. the D300 say. Someone who wants to save money and get about 7 to 8 tenths the D300 and buy better lenses for the difference maybe. Ones moving up to a better body but doesn't want the D90 and wants something more substantial. The D200 will not disappoint. 
Others wanting the latest and greatest will undoubtedly buy the D300 and that makes sense too. For me, and I tried the D300, other than the higher ISO low light performance being better and a better LCD screen, it still was not compelling enough for me to move over to it. I want one sure, but maybe when the price comes down, and even then, it would have to be allot before I give up the D200. I think it is that good. V.C.