ID: B000CRX6YI-R2FA3U1DS39X7J-A1QQDHM5YMLQ8Z
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-70mm-3-5-4-5G
ReviewerID: A1QQDHM5YMLQ8Z
ReviewerName: Joseph Albanese "The Joe Show"
Date: March 13, 2007
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: The Gold Standard
Content:
Nikon has always been the leader in photography/ camera/ lenses.  Others have nobly tried but a Nikon remains the high bar that others only hope to reach.
When the shift from film to digital began, there was some speculation if Nikon could keep up with the competition.  Well, rest assure that not only have they kept up, they continue to lead the way.  The latest example of this is the D200.
Like the D70/ D80 - this is a solid piece of equipment.  Just the feel of it tells you that you are holding an excellent piece of technology.  But the proof will always be in the end results and again, the combination of the Nikon know-how and Nikon lenses lead even a beginner to come up with excellent pictures.
Gone is the "lag between shots".  You can fire up and shoot multiple pictures in seconds so action shots are all yours.  Without even "tweaking" a picture with a computer program, you can print top of the line photos at home.  
People have cited the cons:  Expensive.  Yes.  The camera does come with a hefty price tag but it should be kept in mind that this is a piece of machinery intended for serious photographers.  If you are a "vacation and holiday" picture taker, then you should elect to buy a cheaper camera.  The same is true with the difficulty of the multitude of small buttons, dials and switches.  There are too many and they can be overwhelming but only to someone who is in the "point and shoot" school of picture taking.  Anyone else will relish the options that Nikon has provided us with on the D200.
Room for improvement?  Well, the battery life is nowhere near as good as the D70 which I upgraded from but that is a weak complaint as you can still get hundreds of shots on one charge.  Also, it would be a boon if the flash would automatically pop up when needed like in former models.
So if you are serious about photography and always have one at the ready, this is the one for you.