ID: B000050I7W-R3A7T77Y483BUX-A3A4EEXFUMWNLP
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Kero-World-KW-11F-Portable-Kerosene
ReviewerID: A3A4EEXFUMWNLP
ReviewerName: Michael Goulish
Date: March 6, 2007
Helpful: 15 of 15
Rating: 5.0
Title: perfect combination of high- and low-tech.
Content:
I've used one of these for about 3 fill-ups now: about 36 hours of use.  (I don't think it will ever be 16 hours on 1 gallon, but 12 is fine by me.)
It's flawless.  It smells a very little bit at start-up and shut-down, but while it's running it's essentially odorless.  And perfectly quiet (a very soft gurgle once every ten minutes or so when it needs to sip some fuel into some internal tank) -- and it puts out a lot of heat.
I have a room that's maybe 300 square feet with 5 big windows.  On a cold night (close to 0 degrees F.) this thing can warm up that room by 2 or 3 degrees in 10 minutes, and maybe by 8 or 9 degrees in an hour.  If you sit across the room and it's pointed straight at you, you can feel it right away.
It easy to fill up.  There's a cannister that you carry outside (garage) and fill from your kerosene container with a hand-powered siphon.  Worked the first time.  This may not work if your outdoor kerosene container is too low, but then you can just use a funnel.  The cannister stands up nicely by itself for filling, on a level surface (like a garage floor).
There's a little window on the cannister that lets you see when it's almost empty during use -- and when it's almost full during fill-up.
When you want to turn it off, you press the "extinguish" button -- the big knob in the middle winds rapidly counterclockwise -- makes a loud noise -- and the flame usually goes out immediately.  Sometimes it may gutter for 30 secs or so before completely going out.
At start-up time the flame gutters a little for maybe 60 secs before the combustor starts to glow red, then the flame stabilizes and becomes perfectly quiet.  You can't really see a flame except a little bit of blue  -- maybe a quarter inch at the very top of the combustor.
It's very easy to start up using the little battery starter device -- you just push a red button, hold it for a second, then slowly release.  I've done maybe 20 starts so far on one pair of batteries.  You can start it with a match instead if you want to (or have to.)  But the battery-powered starter is nice.
The back and the top and sides of the unit stay COOL TO THE TOUCH after an hour of use.  Probably indefinitely.
This gadget is an example of a perfect combination of high-tech (the way the combustion works) and low-tech (it's .... kerosene, after all.)
There aren't many things this good.  Cast iron pans, maybe?  And ... um ...  windmills that really work ?  I don't know.
I don't see how I could ask this thing to be any better.