ID: B000K7XPE6-R1R054GWJ131U2-A35SC337Z66X5T
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dirt-Devil-Detailer-Hand-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A35SC337Z66X5T
ReviewerName: D. Brust
Date: October 29, 2009
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good for small jobs
Content:
This is a great little vacuum, just don't expect miracles from it.  I use it to suck up dust and cat hair from my my computer desk, and it does a great job.  I haven't used it for much beyond that, and wouldn't expect it to do much more.  Mind you, it has done a great job of picking up any little bits of paper, crumbs, dirt, etc., that I've thrown at it.  Just don't purchase this vacuum with the idea of using it as a mini shop vac.
I've found the battery to last longer than I'd expect.  I haven't charged it in about a month, with quick daily uses, and it keeps going.  Note that the unit gets pretty warm when left on the charger 24/7.  I don't think it is too much of a concern, but I'd be wary of leaving papers on top of it for a long time.
I've seen others complain about the on/off button being a push-and-hold design, but I actually like it.  Basically, you have to hold the power button down in order for it to work.  I like how you just hold the button down, give the area to be cleaned a quick pass, then let go of the button.  I wouldn't have a problem with a normal on/off button, but I don't miss it, either.
The receptacle has to be emptied often, but that's mostly a characteristic of the device's small size.  It really is a perfect fit for your hand.  At least the receptacle is pretty easy to empty.  I've had similar vacuums in the past where opening the receptacle was nearly impossible, and they had a near-identical receptacle design.
I appreciate the slick design of the unit.  Most vacuums of this size tend to be pretty plain and/or ugly.  The modern look, with the smoke-colored receptacle, is very nice.  I have no problem leaving this vacuum mounted on the wall in my office.
All in all, it's a very handy little vacuum to have sitting around.