ID: B000FDVW7C-RS3VIBAAOF70B-A2A70E3WYI34BR
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Pellet-Stove-Igniter-Exhaust-5500
ReviewerID: A2A70E3WYI34BR
ReviewerName: Audrey C. Brooks
Date: December 9, 2008
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 1.0
Title: These stoves do not heat!!!
Content:
Where do I start with this stove?  We bought two, US Stove models 5500 and the 5500XL from Northern Tool Co.
1. Both units are not flush across the front, when placing a straight edge across the front leaves a gap in the middle in the middle of the unit up to a 1/16 of an inch. The cast door is straight, but when closed across the front of the stove unit produces a gap in the middle of the unit that allows a clear view into the firebox onmodel 5500. I called Customer Service at US Stoves they wanted pictures of the installation and a narrative which I provided before they would do anything. I then called Northern Tool and they notified US Stoves who then sent me a new rope gasket. The 5500XL is missing 3 inces of rope gasket along the bottom of the firebox door.
2. Each stove burns a bag a day, but produces little heat no matter what the setting is at.  I have experienced other pellet type stoves owned by friends and have noted that they burn at a rate that warms the room to excess.  I feel much of the heat is disappearing up the stove pipe.  My son placed a wet towel on a chair in front of the stove blower to dry and it eventually did after an extended period.  The towel was not hot to the touch.  The stove pipe is a double wall vent kit by Simpson Dura-Vent installed in accordance to NFPA 211 and inspected by the County Building and Codes Department.
3. Igniting both stoves are a continual problem. Stove pellets do not ignite readily, causing the operator to empty the pellet tray, and start the ignition process over and over. This can take 10 to 20 minutes, often times we give up in exasperation. Pellets spill over the pellet tray and fall into the combustion chamber. The pellets can only be retrieved by vacuuming them out which results in wasted pellets. A customer service rep at US Stoves, named Christy, says this is nromal!
4. Ash build up is expected and is vacuumed as needed at least several times per week. The area under the pellet box builds up with ash and is inaccessible to routine cleaning. 
5. Stove is warranted and an extended warranty was purchased in addition to the factory warranty. But Northern Tools and US Stoves will not back their product without the customer going to great lengths to prove their case. We just want a stove that works and now that winter is here, we are stuck with a stove that DOES NOT!