ID: B0000AFX53-R1SL5GKNQTCGCN-A12AZKKTKJP700
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Krups-468-42-Moka-8-Cup-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A12AZKKTKJP700
ReviewerName: Caffeine-deprived in Dallas
Date: February 16, 2006
Helpful: 15 of 31
Rating: 1.0
Title: If you absolutely, positively have to throw away $80 . . .
Content:
Pros:  1) This coffeemaker is far more interesting to look at than the typical unit.  2)  It makes a decent cup of coffee.
Cons:  1) It's difficult to impossible to pour water from the glass carafe into the water reservoir, so you'll need to keep an empty water bottle (or some equally attractive container) sitting around and mark it to match the cup amoounts on the carafe.  I found that an old Aquafina bottle marked with a Sharpie did the trick.  2) It doesn't have a timer, so if you want your coffee ready when you get up in the morning you'll have to get one of those timers that plug into the receptacle -- another attractive addition to your kitchen decor.  3) The circular filters seem to be available only by mail from Krups at outrageous prices and usually on backorder, so you'll need to get a pair of sharp scissors for cutting circles out of the regular drip filters you'll be buying -- I know this is certainly the way I want to spend my extra time.  4) The grounds need to be tamped down slightly for best results, so you'll need to find a flat, hard tool exactly the diameter of the grounds container to use in place of the one that Krups didn't bother to include.  5) Contrary to Krups' claim, the heating element in the bottom of the water reservoir DOES NOT keep the coffee hot -- it barely keeps it tepid -- so you'll need to make sure you have a microwave handy to zap every cup except the first one.  6) It doesn't have an automatic shut-off, so you'll be able to ruin your vacations by worrying about whether or not you turned the ill-designed thing off.  7) Clean-up is a pain compared to regular coffeemakers.  The filter disks and spent grounds don't easily come out unless you sharply smack the grounds container against something else, which often affords you the opportunity to clean up a mess of wet coffee grounds.  You might want to keep toothpicks or something similar sitting around to poke through the holes in the bottom of the grounds container to get the filter to fall away -- then you can just dig out the remaining grounds with your finger.
I could go on, but I won't.  Instead I will go to the store and buy a regular drip coffeemaker and a box of Melitta filters that I will NOT be cutting into little circles.  Anybody want a very lightly used Moka Brew?  Ah well, another interesting-looking doorstop.