ID: B000VDQ38E-RTNUEKZIOOXLM-AML6Y89L8A1GH
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: AML6Y89L8A1GH
ReviewerName: Sherluthien
Date: January 30, 2008
Helpful: 17 of 17
Rating: 5.0
Title: Gets The Job Done!!!  It Sux in a good way!!!
Content:
I purchased the Bissell Pet Hair Eraser nearly two months ago, and have used it on a daily basis ever since. Performance wise, it certainly seems to live up to its name, eagerly removing even the most stubborn pet hair from both carpet and furniture. The tools are easily engaged and very efficient; I've found them to be one of the best features of this vacuum. The turbo brush has a miniature beater-bar in it, and in design works almost as well has my hand held Dirt Devil when used on furniture or especially the dog bed.
One point I am particularly pleased about is the flexibility of the vacuum hose, which stretches out generously and doesn't affect the balance of the unit at all. (my previous vacuum, a Hoover Wind-Tunnel, was known for spontaneously tipping over backwards while using the hose, a quite alarming experience)
The cyclone action of the tank spins all hair and debris into a compact ball and is easily removed - a task that should be done, in my opinion, outside only due to the dust that always manages to escape while emptying. I find a swifter or a few damp paper towels help to keep the tank clean, along with an occasional wash in warm water. The tank also seems to fill up quite quickly, and would probably have to be emptied multiple times, depending on how many heavy shedding pets you own.
 At first glance the over-sized construction of this vacuum appears burdensome, but when in use it smoothly propels across the carpet with minimal effort. The large handle definitely provides an added ease of maneuverability.
The only faults I've hereto noticed are that the front nose piece or "pet hair lifter" is quite fragile and wouldn't  survive much abuse - yet the vacuum comes with a feature that allows you to flip the nose piece upward and out of the way if so desired. Out of the box assembly took about 45 minutes and the absence of illustrations on the instruction booklet made it a bit more of a chore than was necessary.
Price-wise this vacuum is an exceptional deal. I comparison shopped for quite some time and could find no equal. Overall very satisfied.