ID: B00006L7UZ-R3KVYSDTNJNYPX-
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Mr-Heater-000-BTU-Natural-Gas-Radiant
ReviewerID: 
ReviewerName: 
Date: February 2, 2004
Helpful: 33 of 34
Rating: 4.0
Title: Mr Heater 25000 BTU
Content:
This is a really nice unit if it fits your purpose.  I must stress however, that is if it fits your purpose.  As I now realize, 25,000 BTU/hr is not an enormous amount of heat.  This unit really is designed for use in a closed in space w/ minimal air curculation.  The heating method is to raise the temperature of all objects in the radiant field so that the space stays warm.  A breeze or draft will reduce it's ability to maintain the heat.  The unit comes with a thermostat for mounting on a wall and setting a desired heat.  I've eliminated the thermostat and just hard wired the unit.  If it's cold enough to have it on, then I want it on.  Mr. Heater advertises using the term &quot;millivolt&quot; ignition or something to this manner.  This is misleading.  This is not a electronic ignition unit!!!  This means the unit has a pilot light.  The pilot light heats a thermocouple which provides the &quot;millivolt&quot; current they refer to.  The thermostat either &quot;opens&quot; or &quot;closes&quot; the circuit, depending on the temperature and thermostat setting.  The &quot;closed&quot; loop opens a solenoid valve in the pressure regulator which releases the gas to the burner.  My unit is installed on a large covered patio outside approximately 8' above a sitting area.  Sitting below the heater in a 8' diameter circle is nice and toasty, even with a slight breeze.  Sitting across the table at 12' you can feel a slight warming effect with no breeze.  More than 12' away....no impact.  This is not a highly effective heater if used in an open space.  As advertised....this is a garage heater.  To get the heat I need I am adding a second heater across the patio from the first.Clearances around the unit are important.  I have 2' clear above my unit, and the lumber above the unit gets warmer than I would like.  After 2 hours of use I can touch the wood with my bare hand without having to remove it, but it is quite warm.  I'm thinking about 120 to 130F.  I have some harditrim up there too and it is even warmer.  Not too sure how long the paint will last.Installation is a breeze.  Includes a video if you need it, but there is essentially nothing to it.Good buy....if it's what you need.   If you are thinking of installing it outside......you may want to consider getting more BTU's.