ID: B000FFWGN4-R364FCVVGUA57L-A399FK87WQ7W0C
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-Lift-2dOff-Revolution-Pet-37602
ReviewerID: A399FK87WQ7W0C
ReviewerName: David S. "David S."
Date: December 28, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent vaccuum!
Content:
So, here are my stats.  Stay-at-home dad with 2 year old and a labrador that loves to shed.  Our old vacuum was an upright Royal.  Even after vacuuming with my old vac, there was still lingering pet hair.  Not so with the Bissel.  This vaccuum made me realize how bad my other vacuum was.  It is awesome!  So, here's what I really like about it.  
Great suction-It picks up everything my old vacuum didn't.  It was like it redefined what clean meant for my carpet.  I can't say this enough.  My carpets finally look clean, even close up.  
Quieter than others-Some people complain about noisy vacuums.  They are vacuums people!  Vacuums are noisy.  This one is less noisy than my old vacuum and I am very happy about that.
Removable unit for stairs with brush!   Nothing is worse than trying to drag a clunky upright unit up and down stairs.  The bissel makes it easy and you don't get some half-powered detachment.  You get the full power of the vacuum which is surprisingly not too heavy and much less clunky.  Your back will thank you for this one.  Also, the rotary pet brush attaches for cleaning stairs.  Other vacuums, you have to try and brush away pet hair with a non-rotary brush.  The bissel has rubber teeth AND a rotary brush.  Goodbye pet hair!
Bagless-Another thing you don't have to buy and throw in a landfill.  I love the bagless.  Some people complain that you have to empty the bin regularly.  Yes, you will early on.  First time out, I did a high traffic area and had to empty it after a couple sweeps.  However, this is another testament to how much better this vacuum is than my last one.  Celebrate that all that junk is out of your carpet.  On a normal day, you'll have to empty it every couple rooms.  No biggie.  
Another helpful feature is that the rotating brush stops when the vacuum is upright so you're not burning out the belts or brushes.  
IMHO, it would be tough to design a better vacuum and at this price, it's a great deal.  Excellent if you have pets.