ID: B00008UI0R-RFMRLZQXZ9PLL-A2ILJKLNVSNRKS
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A2ILJKLNVSNRKS
ReviewerName: Jim Bob "handy engineer"
Date: May 5, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 1.0
Title: Hoover S3765-040 Cannister Vacuum has a serious problem
Content:
I purchased an S3765-040 Hoover Canister Vacuum in March 2008. It has a serious problem with the carpet and floor power nozzle. The problem is that the brush stalls when it is placed on a carpet. This happens on a very ordinary area rug with normal pile height; it is not a high, thick pile. The brush actually quits turning even though the motor still runs (you can hear the motor turning). It began to happen after using the cannister vac only 5 times, on two small carpets, one 8 x 12, and the other 4 x 8. So there was no reason to expect any worn out parts. The unit was taken to a Hoover service center and the belt was replaced. Upon using it again for less than 5 minutes the same brush stall problem reoccurred. Trying various settings of suction made no difference in performance. After calling Hoover they are sending out a new brush. I doubt that a new brush will make any difference but am willing to try it. It seems to me that the power nozzle design allows the agitator brush bristles to protrude too far through the bottom opening and contact the carpet much too aggressively so that stalling is impossible to avoid. In other words there is in my opinion either a basic design problem or the brush is manufactured with bristles which are too long. Whichever is true, the unit at present is totally unsatisfactory for carpet use. And regarding the statement in the manual that it "automatically adjusts to different carpet pile heights": the wheels and brush in the carpet power nozzle are fixed in vertical position, and there are no height adjustment provisions, either manual or automatic. So their statement about automatic adjustment is disingenuous at best.
On the positive side, the vac has excellent suction and is quiet. The powered hand tool does a very good job at picking up pet hair and dust from furniture and vehicle upholstery. The dirt cup is easy to empty. The controls and switches on the hand grip are easy to use, and the telescoping wand is great. I like the cord rewind feature also. There is a lot to like about this product and it will be a "keeper" IF the brush stalling problem can be solved.