ID: B000BY52NK-R2JIH9CA8X4H75-A35AIS4474UJDT
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D200-10-2MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A35AIS4474UJDT
ReviewerName: projectmgr
Date: January 30, 2006
Helpful: 71 of 75
Rating: 5.0
Title: This camera puts it all together!
Content:
The excitement over this camera is justified!
We've all heard about the excellent build quality and it is true.
This is in many ways the best camera I have ever owned.  The interface is intuitive and really is beyond compare in my experience. Every adjustment is right there at your finger tips making it fast and easy to change settings as different lighting and situations present themselves. This camera fits my hands like a glove!
So far the matrix metering is impressive. The amount of detail captured in the shadow area is exceptional!
Contrary to rumors I have read the D200 does offer capture in black and white mode.
Nikon has done a lot right here!
One other thing the software is another excellent feature. You can import existing pictures, regardless of brand camera used to capture. The upload is quick and offers the ability to tag, export, mail, adjust, resize and more.  Very nice and comprehensive user interface there as well.
Packaging and accessories are first class!
One side note, the battery does not last anywhere near the 1800 captures described in the descriptions I have read. One battery does not get me through a day of shooting, particulary when using a VR lens. Plan on getting a couple of hundred shots in between charging possibly more if using manuall focus and shutting off frequently.
Overall I am very happy with the purchase of this camera. It's the best value on the market in my opinion.
*Continued assessment after even more extensive use.
Ok...I am even more impressed than I was when I wrote the above portion of this review.
The amount of well thought out features on this camera expand the photographers capability greatly.
Start with having four custom menu's that can be set and ready to use just a click away. For instance, one set-up for sports, one for flash portraiture, one for night capture and so on.
This camera produces the best life-like as witnessed at the time of capture color I have expereienced since discovering photography almost 30 years ago.  
I mean superb color! Pariculary in the greens and blues. Every color really! 
The images produced have the least amount of digital noise I have seen.  This means better pictures, enlargements and best of all a lot less time spent in the processing.  I even jack the ISO(International Standards Organization) up to 800 or a 1000 with excellent results!  There is some noise at 1600. About the same as some of the other cameras I've used when set at ISO 200.
The EV(Exposure Variation) adjustments are easy to access and you can set the increment value to 1/3, 1/2 or 1 full stop depending on personal preference. 
Oh! You can do picture Overlays in the camera!  Yes right in the camera as long as they are captured in RAW and on the same memory card.  
Add to that multiple exposure capability as well.
This camera puts a lot of capability in your hands!
Good luck!