ID: B000AQSMPO-RZZETZ4A4IW1C-A1E55J0MJKHFQ1
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-B60-Special-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing
ReviewerID: A1E55J0MJKHFQ1
ReviewerName: Desert Mariner "E.G. Smith"
Date: April 15, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Practical, easy, convenient... a hectic life simplified...Priceless
Content:
Many of the reviews of the Keurig Coffee Makers, this model or any of them, claim it makes the "greatest coffee ever."  To claim that, one's exposure to great coffee is limited and is probably a bit reaching.  This is not to say it doesn't make an impressive cup of coffee in a small compact counter top appliance.  As the tag line states it is practical.  We recently received this as a wedding gift, it was originally one of those wish list items when you say if I had everything.  Honestly, I would recommend it to anyone who wants to make a single cup of coffee with minimal effort.  
I know people who love the experience of grinding beans, brewing a pot, and have coffee all day long.  For me, a cup in the morning and a cup or two in the evening a few times a week is enough for me.  So it is practical in the sense I get exactly what I need.  And in a world where everything is increasing in cost, the $5.00 coffee shop coffee days are over.  This is at home, no more lines, and at an average cost of $0.34 per cup, a fraction of the cost, and for me all the flavor.
As for being easy, you fill the water, pop in a k-cup, and push a button, 60 seconds later, one hot cup of great tasting coffee.  When done, you toss the k-cup and turn off.  
Lets look at being convenient, for speed I had always done the Folgers instant coffee singles, which are easier than a pot of coffee, but these machines are far more convenient.  One cup, no dipping, to squeezing the bags, no drips all over the counter.  Plus with the timer, it is hot when I get up and I just hit start.  Always fresh and always ready.
So in the end, it allows me make better use of my mornings and makes my life a little less hectic, and for me, that is priceless.