ID: B000G1CXZI-R1WLG0UKDV2I0H-AH29DEC3539X
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-TRN0812T-Portable-Oil-Filled-Programmable
ReviewerID: AH29DEC3539X
ReviewerName: K. Pliego "karlina"
Date: February 6, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 6
Rating: 1.0
Title: They used to be good, not anymore I will never buy one
Content:
I have three of these. The first one was great, everything worked perfectly so I bought a second one, this came with a noise that never went away; a loud vibrating noise that ocurred heavily while heating and then intermitently while keeping temperature, I bought this last one on ebay and the seller refunded the money for it but I decided to keep it and it worked ok, I just didn't have it on at night or in my bedroom, I used it for the bathtub. By now the two older units make the same kind of vibrating noise that does not allow me to keep them on at night. Those two are about 4 and 3 years old. This last november I decided I needed a third one for the bedroom, one that didn't make any noise and I purchased it from Amazon. This one was smaller and it worked fine for about 2 months and just after the return period expired the timer misteriously stopped working. Now I cannot program it to turn on and off intermitently during the night, it heats well enough but it is useless to me without the timer because I use it for keeping warm while falling asleep and while waking up. Now I have to wake up around 1 am to turn it off and 4 am to turn it on...what a drag. I have contacted delonghi about it and they wanted me to ship it to them and they did not warranty that they would not charge me for the repair so I was not about to spend $30 on shipping just to have to pay more. I dediced to use my central heat and my fireplace instead. And I will never buy delonghi products. I used to love this brand but I  think they have let their costumers down by not keeping their product's quality and by having bad costumer service. I do not recommend anybody to buy this because you will never know what is going to go wrong with it, with me it was the noise factor and the timer, others have completed melted down (read other reviews). They are too expensive to be worth it, specially during these times. Save your money and find some other higher quality product. I will start looking for one and keep you posted.