ID: B000VDQ38E-R1E5ECQIV6LOSG-A1Q55YXJ7UO29G
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1Q55YXJ7UO29G
ReviewerName: Jackie
Date: January 13, 2008
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Finally something that WORKS!!!
Content:
I have never written a review, good or bad, on any product before.  However, this product SERIOUSLY works and I felt that I had to write my comments.  I have one dog that sheds so bad.  NOTHING I have done helps to control the shedding (I even vacuum my dog - she loves it).  I felt the situation was hopeless since her fur is not only EVERYWHERE but it inbeds itself into the fibers of the carpet, clothes, and the couch.  My car was a mess.  No amount of tape would help.  I have taken to using tweezers to individually remove her fur from things.  
Then I saw an ad on TV for the product.  I felt that it couldn't hurt to try it since it was a reasonable price for a vacuum that was appealing to dog owners.  I bought it and tried it out immediately.  I was literally in shock.  It actually sucked up the fur from EVERYTHING.  I have now become obsessed with vacuuming my house.  I do it multiple times a day.  No matter how many times I vacuum I am thrilled with the amount of dog fur and dirt that is in the container.  I love to see that it is filled, everytime I must show my husband (its amazing nothing has ever worked).  What's even better is that when I lay down and look very closely at the carpet - NO FUR!!  The flexible attachment is great - my dog loves to be vacuumed with that part (I know the instructions say not to vacuum a dog - but she begs to be vacuumed).  The furniture attachment is great too.  It actually works on my couches - I no longer have to beat the cushions with a stick then pick off the fur.  I am completely amazed and satisfied with this product.  One of the best things (other than it working) is that my house no longer has that funky smell to it.
I LOVE THIS PRODUCT - if you have the same problems with dog fur as I do BUY IT.