ID: B0009VELUA-RJC21CIJH6ADK-ANJFB4UTB3YDH
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-2000-Coffee-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: ANJFB4UTB3YDH
ReviewerName: Book Lover "Peace Please"
Date: August 11, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 2.0
Title: 2 stars for good looks,  convenience and really good coffee
Content:
We purchased this Coffee on Demand in January 2009 and I had to return it in July because it stopped working. As others have said, sometimes it would work, sometimes not. It would stop during a brew. It would shut off if it did make it through a complete brew and had to be turned back on....which worked sometimes and not others. There were times it had to be unplugged and plugged back in to reset it. Sometimes that worked, sometimes it didn't and we had to wait for the machine to cool off completely. Eventually, it couldn't be programmed at all. I cleaned my coffee maker faithfully every month with vinegar so I know it wasn't anything I did wrong. 
I haven't had a problem filling the coffee maker. I have it to the left of my sink and I use the sink sprayer to fill it. That works perfectly because the water gauge is on the right side of the machine and I can see how much water I'm putting in. I do have to pull it out from under the upper cabinet because the lid can't be opened unless I do, but that's just not an issue for me.
Cuisinart paid to ship the new one to me, but I had to pay $31.00 to ship back the old one through the USPS who now charges according to box sizes and NOT weight. The box weighed 11 pounds and I had to pay for 21 pounds because of the size of the box. Ridiculous. So far, I've paid $131.00 for this Coffee on Demand. I just hope I have better luck with the new one because I am not spending any more money on this coffee maker no matter how much I love the looks, convenience and good tasting coffee.
The condensation from the lid running down the back of the unit is very annoying, but if the machine continues to work, I'll put up with the mess because that's how much I LOVE the looks, convenience and taste of the coffee. Whoever designed this Coffee on Demand with a dripping lid, should be fired. Where's quality control? You can't tell me that Cuisinart never tested this machine before it was sent to be manufactured. They had to know about the lid problem. How could they not? It's a very, very stupid design. And there is obviously a defect in the electronics of this coffee maker. Cuisinart needs to either fix the problems or discontinue their "Best Selling coffee maker"....that is a quote from the Customer Service rep I spoke to. They must be making these things for dirt cheap if they can afford to replace thousands of them under their warranty.
As much as I love the looks, convenience of no carafe and the taste of the coffee, I cannot recommend this coffee maker with a clear conscience...which saddens me because it COULD BE the best thing since sliced bread.