ID: B000TQEDE4-R305FM1G8ATVV5-ADTQLI7YFU9KP
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1150BK-Programmable-Thermal-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: ADTQLI7YFU9KP
ReviewerName: P. Garvin "p"
Date: April 13, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Better than most
Content:
I purchased this in black when my trusty 4 cup coffee maker made it's last pot about 2 weeks ago.  Since I insist on my coffee being "ready" when I stumble to the pot at 6AM, the auto brew option is a must have for me.  I also wanted the carafe so the coffee isn't "cooked" after an hour on the burner and because I love my afternoon cup of joe.  I researched all the options on Amazon and figured for the price, this is the one I wanted.  (Thanks to all that create the reviews - they are very helpful).  
I agree with the others on the poor carafe pouring, it does take quite an angle to get the coffee out and it's a slow trickle but not a major issue.  I didn't find the coffee to be super hot but it did stay hot for quite a few hours later.  I haven't used the filters yet but it seems that they should be used in addition to the gold permanant filter.  There was a black setament (sp) in the bottom of my last cups of coffee.  I don't know if it's the charcoal filter or the coffee... will have to test things out.
The beep is not that loud at all.  The reviews have made it seem like it was a smoke alarm going off but it's not THAT loud.  It was nice to know the second pot was done when I was doing chores Saturday.  Unless you have it REALLY close to where you're sleeping I don't see why it would bother anyone but to each their own.
I personally think alot of carafe thermos's will cool any liquids if left at room temp so pre-heating would be best regardless.  This one is a very sturdy good quality material.  The lid takes some getting used to but it's also quite obivous how to put it on and where to pour from.
It was super easy to program and the "clean" button is pretty nice for those with well water. 
I'm very pleased with the coffeepot overall.  As long as it's hot and ready when I stumble to the kitchen, it's all good to me!