ID: B000AQSMPO-RU55TBNFAL45N-A2JT1CXJ3M0TIT
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-B60-Special-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing
ReviewerID: A2JT1CXJ3M0TIT
ReviewerName: W. Lae
Date: January 9, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 5
Rating: 1.0
Title: Warm Water for a Buck.
Content:
Keurig B60 Special Edition Gourmet Single-Cup Home-Brewing System
Yeah, I'm just gadget-oriented, 'hip' and lazy enough to pay nearly a dollar for the convenience (and bragging rights) for a single-serving cup of home gadget brewed "gourmet" coffee. "I-coffee" if you will. I don't know if Keuirg is a German company. 'sounds like it and that in and of itself might just be good branding and packaging. From a German company, I would expect masterful engineering, execution, craft, and, indeed, strong, European coffee. Keurig delivered "none of the above." Now, since it's getting pretty good reviews, I was left to wonder if I am just a fan of really, really strong coffee, but I like most any American coffee-house coffee (Starbucks, Coffee Bean, Seattle's Best, etc.) -- just like the next 'guy.' So I can't imagine I am a coffee snob. Keurig delivered various colors of warm water. If I put cream in the coffee, that's all I tasted. We used the darkest K-cup brews offered and even used the "small cup" setting. That would render just barely 'coffee-like' coffee. When using a light brew and the large cup setting (which is only 8oz....smallest cup in a coffee-house) the machine renders something that might only be useful for washing the dishes in. Mind you, it's not even the size of a Starbuck's "Tall." My wife and I are severely disappointed. We really wanted this to work. We even threw more "good money" after "bad" by trying out the "My K-cup" accessory so we could use our own coffee. It came out even worse. Thanks to the poor think-through and lousy engineering on Keurig's behalf, the hot water just rushes through the filter. We followed tips by another "trying to make it work" user and rigged the My-K-cup so that it wold slow down the water (similar to the pre-packaged k-cups.) It did slow it down, but the brew was still not to our satisfaction. What a disappointment and shame.
The Keurig and My-K-cup are both going back to the store and our trusty French press is coming out from retirement. Now we're back to good, reasonably priced coffee, not expensive hot-water. Perhaps that's what Keurig means by "gourmet?"