ID: B000BK39N4-R1AFJ8CYRDO036-A31N0XY2UTB25C
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Digital-14-45mm-3-5-5-6-40-150mm
ReviewerID: A31N0XY2UTB25C
ReviewerName: Stephanie Sullivan
Date: June 5, 2007
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: If it only had image stabilization - what, the E510!
Content:
I got this camera in fall of 2006. I has been great. The lenses are sharp and very good for part of a bundle package. I have an OM4t and many OM manual lenses. With an adapter most of these work well on this camera. I wish the view finder were more friendly to manual focusing. The optional eyecup/magnifier helps some, maybe just enough. 
I got the adapter for studio flash and it's been a workhose in the studio. The battery lasts and lasts - for me that's a real feature. Having dual storage media is also a major plus though the CF cards are pretty huge these days compared to just a couple of years ago.
The on-board flash is OK for snapshots but not impressive for other use. I was amazed how well the camera did in poor light. It had some trouble focusing but was much better than I expected.
The one thing I wish it had is image stabilization. Now the E510 is coming out and answering that need. And a good thing to see.
In keeping with olympus SLR tradition this camera is relatively compact, strong, and with well thought out controls. The standard 4/3 lens mount is a big point for me. I like an open mount and I'm happy to see Olympus go that direction.
Olympus is doing amazing things with their professional line of digital lenses. Check it out and you'll be amazed at the optics.
The software that comes with the camera is actually useful. Who would have thunk it! I got the upgrade to the full version of olympus master (about $30 as I recall) and it was worth it. Later I got Olypus Studio for batch processing capabilities and that is what I use most of the time for mass manipulations. Kudos to olympus for being the exception to the norm.
I'm very happy with this outfit but may upgrade to the E510 for the image stabilization.