ID: B000JNYWBG-R2HTT7R1DMO2BX-A2M9GIR4CKZPV7
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-touch-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A2M9GIR4CKZPV7
ReviewerName: E. Balch
Date: October 14, 2007
Helpful: 92 of 113
Rating: 5.0
Title: Slick and entertaining, but know what you are getting...
Content:
This is a fabulous piece of technology and integrates very smoothly with my Imac and Itunes.  Others have already covered many Pros/Cons but there are a few things that are worth considering before purchasing.
1. PRICE--Others have "complained" about the price.  This IS NOT food, water or shelter; it is a discretionary purchase.  It represents excellent value IMHO in comparison to other similar devices.
2. INTERNET--The wireless internet is surprisingly functional once you are used to some of the quirks and limitations.  For example, you can currently only watch video from internet sites supported by Quicktime.  Some sites (like AOL) don't seem to load very efficiently and navigating sites with crowded page content can be trying.
3. USEFULNESS--This is NOT a PDA though it can serve as one in a limited capacity with some creative thinking.  For example you can create "notes" in Ical or you can (assuming a wireless conection is available) send yourself an e-mail if you need to type something in so you remember it.  If you NEED a PDA, get the Iphone instead.
4. ITOUCH vs IPHONE--I opted for this because I don't need a PDA and my current cell plan fits my needs.  Remember the IPHONE is a touch device and I'm guessing most people don't wash their hands every time prior to use.  Now you are putting those germs right up to your ear.  Think about using an IPHONE after shaking hands with "Joe" who doesn't wash his hands after...well, you get the idea. 
5. SIZE--It's thin, but not small.  If you primarily listen to music, stick with the Nano.  Once it is in sleep mode you can't change settings without activating it.  I use my Nano for walks and I can adjust it right in my pocket (volume especially).
So far, I love it--I'll post an update if things change!!