ID: B000V5QV4S-R39EDLRSBXAVHC-A2BZF12UZ53GAU
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-40D-Digital-28-135mm-Standard
ReviewerID: A2BZF12UZ53GAU
ReviewerName: Steven A. Hoagland
Date: September 29, 2007
Helpful: 21 of 21
Rating: 5.0
Title: Bravo, Canon!
Content:
I received the Canon EOS 40D on 9/26/07. From the time I took it out of the box and held it, I knew I was going to like this camera.
Ergonomics:  I've been using a smallish Rebel XT for almost a year, so the larger size and grip of the 40D was a delight. And the 40D is nice and grippy in all the right places. And all the controls fall readily to your fingertips--very ergonomic.
Build quality:  It has some heft to it, which lends a sense of sturdiness and quality. Also, the extra weight provides a better balance for my EF-S 17-55 f/2.8 IS USM lens. My Rebel XT, when I had the strap around my neck with the camera hanging down in front, would tend to twist forward under the weight of the lens. With the same lens mounted to the 40D, the camera tends to stay straight--much better balance.
Viewfinder:  The viewfinder is another thing that Rebel XT owners will smile about regarding the 40D. The viewfinder is much larger and brighter than the Rebel XT's.
Top LCD:  The top LCD display has lots of helpful information that remains displayed at all times (f/stop in Av mode, white balance setting, est. remaining shots on card, battery indicator, metering mode, auto focus mode, exposure scale, ISO, and shooting mode (single shot, 3 fps, 6.5 fps, or timer)). I look at the remaining shots indication all the time.
Rear LCD:  The rear LCD is huge (3-inches). And the lettering is large, bright and easy to read--much better for those of us who have difficulty seeing small writing close up. I find that it can be read even if you turn the camera almost all the way sideways to your face.  Therefore, the 140 degrees viewing angle rating appears to be quite conservative.  The menu options are well-organized, intuitive, and easy to navigate and use.  You can set the amount of time the image displays on the rear LCD after you take the shot (Review time = Off, 2 sec., 4 sec., 8 sec., or Hold). I did notice that, despite how very bright this display is, in bright sunlight, it is nearly impossible to see the image in the display.  So, I just had to look for some shade (or shield the display from the sun somehow).
Taking Pictures:  The 40D lends so much confidence, it is almost impossible to adequately describe. Especially with the excellent EF-S 17-55 lens, there seems to be no shooting situation you can't conquer. The Auto Focus (AF) locks on fast and sure with a quick "beep-beep" in all lighting situations. I generally have the camera set to just the center AF point, since I want to choose the specific spot I want to focus on.  The 40D has a high-precision cross-type center AF point that, when used with an f/2.8 or larger lens, provides twice the sensitivity as the other AF points.  Lately I've been utilizing the 40D's Highlight tone priority mode and the High ISO speed noise reduction mode.  The Highlight tone priority mode expands the dynamic range from gray to bright highlights and the gradations in between become smoother.  This mode forces the minimum ISO to be 200.  This is no problem, since the 40D produces very low noise, even at elevated ISO speeds.  I have noticed that detail in highlights is well-preserved, though I still frequently need to reduce the highlights in post-processing (I shoot RAW almost exclusively). The High ISO speed noise reduction mode applies noise reduction at all ISO speeds, which is particularly effective at high ISO speeds. This mode also reduces noise in shadows.  I am having no problems with noise on this camera.  And despite this in-camera post-processing, in Photoshop Elements, I still can level, saturate, sharpen, etc. to my heart's content and still wind up with a sharp image, due to the excellent 10.1 megapixel sensor, and the inherently low amount of noise it produces.
Live View:  I briefly played around with the Live View mode hand-held, since I have yet to receive my new ball head I've ordered for the tripod legs I recently received. It is really convenient to move the little joy-stick on the back of the 40D to place the little box over the point of interest and zoom in 5x or 10x and manually focus to fine-adjust the focus.  You can auto focus during live mode by holding down the AF On button until you hear the quick "beep-beep" of the AF locking on (rear screen goes blank), then release it and the Live View display comes back on immediately. When you press the shutter release in Live View mode, it is nearly silent, since the mirror is already locked up and out of the way. [Note that you initiate Live View mode by pressing the "set" button in the middle of the big wheel on the back of the 40D and the mirror locks up and out of the way immediately, and you get a nearly full-screen, live view on the large rear LCD with info underneath showing (in Av mode) f/stop, exposure scale, shots remaining on card, and ISO speed.]
General observations:  The battery seems to be lasting a long time, despite me playing around with the Live View mode, and spending a lot of time going through menu items and deciding which modes I want to use.  As of this writing, I've taken about 200 photos (some of which are posted here for you to see). I got the 8GB Sandisk Extreme IV Compact Flash card, so I can just walk around popping off shots without worry of running out of space.  I have received a Bogen-Manfrotto 055mf3 tripod, but I am waiting on the Kirk BH-1 ball head to arrive. Then, I will give the Live View mode a thorough going over.
Conclusions (9/29/07):  This camera simply does all that is asked of it. There is no better camera that can be used with the top-performing Canon EF-S 17-55 lens, since the 40D is the best 1.6x crop Canon camera body, and the EF-S 17-55 lens can only be used on 1.6x crop Canons. The 40D is ergonomic, sturdy, feature-packed, high performance, high IQ, low noise, and an exceptional value. I'm sure many pro shooters will be snatching these things up, too. And I'm going to have a ball exploring all that it can do. Bravo, Canon!