ID: B0001LFRIS-R1GYCIBD0EBWE4-A1R1VJRNH2GTGY
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: D70-Digital-Camera-Body-Only
ReviewerID: A1R1VJRNH2GTGY
ReviewerName: M. Spring
Date: November 12, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Every camera has it's faults...
Content:
I have been a Canon user for about three years now. My Canon Xti has not let me down yet. I kept hearing and reading all these good reviews on Nikon DSLRS. I originally was going to get a Nikon, but for some reason didn't. Anyways, after reading, i decided just to take a chance with one. I was recommended the d70 or d50 as a starter Nikon. I just bought a used Nikon body(wonderful condition BTW) just in case i really didn't like it. The first i noticed when i took the camera out was the Body's size. Comparing to my Canon XTI, the body is larger, but feels much stronger and better made. I actually don't shake as much when i hold the Nikon compared to the Canon. When it's comes to the battery life, it seems very well. As for options and functions, it's laid out very well, and not diffcult to use. The screen is a good bit smaller than my Canon, but that is ok. I'm getting use to it. Now, as for the white balance, the Nikon takes the cake. Canons are more on the warm white balance and if you want to make it normal/neutral, you sometimes have to set a custom white balance(Especially indoors). I didn't have to do that with the Nikon yet. I just set it to whatever correct white balance and it's pretty accurate. That's a plus. The colors are very nice too, but i'll be able to fully tell as time goes. I read a couple of negatives that i may be able to help out with: I read there is a blueish tint when taking pics indoors with the flash. This is probably because you have the wrong white balance set. Also i read the light meter is off. This is true, but as another reviewer stated, "Read the book and you'll understand it better." I think some people need to understand their cameras better before just posting negative statments about it. Overall, The d70 is a nice camera and i hope to enjoy it more as time moves along.