ID: B0009JPREG-R11DOBBKI79HEH-A2VZI0TATTZSSM
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-Camera-18-70mm-55-200mm
ReviewerID: A2VZI0TATTZSSM
ReviewerName: Frank Martin
Date: April 15, 2006
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Awesome d-SLR
Content:
After spending hours reading many reviews, switching back & forth to Canon then Nikon, I finally decided to buy the Nikon D70s.
Very happy I did.
What strikes me on this camera is the controls & settings are extremely intuitive.  I'm the typical male with big hands, and every button seems to be placed right where I expect them to be.       I had the opportunity to play around with a Rebel XT afterwards, and not only did the camera feel very awkward (too small), the quick settings buttons & knob did not feel as "natural" as they do on the D70s ...far from it.     I would be extremely disappointed today to be an owner of a Rebel XT , and see what a D70 feels like post-purchase.
Many people are picking a D50 over the D70s to save some money, and truthfully I think people should think twice about it.
Key missing features on the D50:
- Grid Lines in the viewfinder.
- Shortcut button for metering.  I change my metering mode alot, would be annoying to do it thru the menu each time.
- Front dial knob.  Might sound insignificant, but after a while you do get used to controlling Aperture & Shutter speed on their respective front or back knob, especially in manual mode.
- Illuminated top LCD.  If you take alot of night photos, you will miss that feature alot.  You could use a mini-flashlight held in your mouth,  but personally I'd grow tired of relying that each time I have to go out at night.
- Wireless flash.  Probably a gimmick for most,  but usefull once you know how to exploit it.
- Shortcut button for bracketing.  Not that usefull if you shoot in Raw,  but can be great for JPEG landscape photos that have alot of hightlights and shadows.
- Compactflash memory card.  SD cards on the D50? ouch.   Compactflash is the most common media type, and the more affordable when it comes to price/storage.   The odds are about 10:1 that in 2-3 years, if you upgrade to a better model than the D50, your new SLR would need Compactflash media.   That's easily a 150-200$ waste right there, if you own something like 2-3 x 2GB memory cards (you will get to a point where you'll want more than one card).
All-in-all, I love this camera and I doubt many will be disappointed with theirs.    I would suggest you buy a flash unit like the SB-600 as well.  It opens up a whole new world of indoors photography , both in terms of photo quality, and shooting speed (with the onboard flash you cannot shoot in bursts).
P.S. After you've purchased a flash unit, start saving money for a zoom lens.  The 18-70mm kit lens is nice,  but the zoom limit of 70mm will be become very apparent not long after you've purchased your camera.   Take a loot at the new 18-200 VR ;)
P.S.2.  There is something I dislike alot on the camera , and it's the fact it doesn't support high-speed USB 2.0.  Yuck, I lost patience with the slow speed after a day only (transferring 2 gigs worth of photos does take quite a while), so I bought a compaqflash reader.  Only 20$, but the camera should have been up to that standard, considering it's a recent model.
Enjoy