ID: B000EMBAN0-RGD7PMJAZ46MA-A1BYCMIERQGU39
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dirt-Devil-Reaction
ReviewerID: A1BYCMIERQGU39
ReviewerName: E. Chang "random consumer"
Date: September 18, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 3.0
Title: "The Beast?"
Content:
The reason that I purchased this vacuum is for the 1) filterless/washable filter, and what seemed liked good suction, and I couldn't afford a Dyson at the time.
1) The filter works, as others mentioned, but requires regular cleaning. The foam filter needs washing, the paper filter needs shaking/pounding and gentle toothbrushing or washing. The airflow directors (silver-finned cones inside the canister) also require regular cleaning that is not hard, but take additional care. In all, the filter and fins may save money, but not time. Every few times cleaning our place needed a washing of the filters and fins. While advertised as a HEPA system, the vacuum is not airtight when cleaning, or emptying, and because of this, it does give off some dust especially after cleaning.
2) I have noticed loss of suction after a few months of use, but even more annoying is the loss of suction once the canister fills up (unevenly, as there are two separate chambers). I'll be vacuuming, and didn't know they've stopped spinning. Overall, the suction was actually pretty strong, but on hard floors, the beater bar works too fast, and spits debris backwards instead of sucking it into the canister when lowered to hard floor setting. Raising it helps, but doesn't eliminate this problem. In order to reduce spit back on carpet, lowering the height slows the motor, but the beater bar is strong enough that working against the bias of a carpet taxes your grip (beyond what my wife can muster...which means I do almost all vacuuming).
Regarding the belts (the Achilles' Heel for maintenance of this unit?), slowly, they seem to be losing grip on the beater bar. After owning for a year, I think they'll last OK?
"The Beast"
The package weight is 25.9 lbs.? 24.1 for the vacuum itself? I think Amazon switched the numbers. This is a heavy (durable) vacuum, and not wife friendly (at least for mine!). The positive: if you don't mind the weight, it seems to be built like a tank. It's also quite tall.
Misc. comments: 
Big, hard to maneuver and get into corners and under things; average to above average noise compared to other vacs I have owned. 
Final Thoughts:
My suspicion is that Dirt Devil made this as a "Reaction" to the Dyson, and didn't balance out all the parts. While it does suck up a lot of carpet lint and dirt and stuff, it's basically a carpet-only machine with decent tools (the passive/wind powered mini-brush is terrible, but the manual tools are fine). For the money it's not the worst vac, but it shouldn't be hard to find something better or cheaper, and definitely lighter unless you're looking for a workout.