ID: B000U6FUQI-R6QVOBI0YE1BS-AA6176V2HKG16
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dirt-Devil-0313SLV-Cordless-Cleaner
ReviewerID: AA6176V2HKG16
ReviewerName: Scott Turner "EngineerBoy"
Date: May 19, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Would change this review to two-stars if I could, see update at bottom of original review
Content:
Our entire house has wood or tile floors, and we have three huge shedding machines (colloquially referred to as "dogs").  We had daily dust-bunny pileups, dragging out the big vac was tiresome, and the smaller vacs we tried all had serious flaws for our situation.
But not the KRUZ.  It works wonderfully, it's super-light, easy to maneuver and control, we have yet to run the battery down during use, it looks nice, empties easily, and really helps us keep the dog/cat hair under control, and also picks up the occasional kitty litter tracked by our cat (who also sheds profusely).
It doesn't really work well on carpeting, but then agains it's not supposed to.  It can't pick up big stuff, like tracked-in leaves and twigs, but our big vacuum barely handles those, either.  The manufacturer could make the dirt cup bigger as there is seemingly room on the device, but it's not burdensomely small.
However, for day-to-day cleanup of pet hair, cat litter, and normal household dust and dirt on hard floors, the KRUZ works great - it's so light and easy to use that it's actually almost fun to simply grab it and glide it around to keep things under control, and I HATE vacuuming and am NOT a clean freak (by any stretch of the imagination).
Update 1/6/2009 - well, I have to retract virtually all of the above review.  After a couple of months the Kruz stopped vacuuming, turns out the vacuum line was clogged.  I cleaned it out several times, more and more frequently until it got so clogged I had to disassemble the entire unit to clean it all the way out.  That lasted a couple of weeks and it clogged again.  All we vacuum up is pet hair, but the hinged and bent pathway for the intake of dirt/dust makes it prone to clogging.  So, for $100 we got less than a year's worth of performance.  Not worth it.