ID: B000IHN8AO-R35VAELNZJOD7R-AOEDWQLH2WKKW
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-10-2MP-Digital-Camera-Reduction
ReviewerID: AOEDWQLH2WKKW
ReviewerName: E. J Tastad "ejt"
Date: December 11, 2007
Helpful: 5 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Words cannot describe my like for this camera, only photos...
Content:
Pros:
Quality and features per dollar including in body shake reduction and full weather seals
Backwards compatible with almost all Pentax lenses
Image quality, especially in RAW
Cons:
Weight
Shutter button feel (hard to find mid press point)
Lack of retail support in some areas
Bottom line:
This is an excellent camera for the dollar.  The built in shake reduction works with all lenses, including the old ones!  Full seals for shooting in inclement weather to keep the rain and snow from damaging your expensive tool are impressive for a camera in this price range.  I have had no issue with JPG files as some have had, but they aren't as good as a post processed RAW file for sure, but don't expect them to look bad as some reviews have said.  Who should buy the K10D?  Anyone considering a mid-grade DSLR camera.
My cons for this camera are minor gripes.  I actually like the weight, as it feels stable and substantial in my hands.  My complaint with the shutter button is that it is different than my Canon Digital Rebel was.  It doesn't have a well defined mid press point for focusing/metering.  I found I accidentally triggered the shutter a few times, but now that I have 2000 pictures through the camera I don't notice.
To address some concerns floating around from reviews on popular internet sites, the low light focus can be bad at times if the lighting is really low and low contrast, but at other times it does fine.  Overall it does better than my Canon Digital Rebel (300d) did.  
The JPEGs might be a little soft, but are still impressive with a good lens.  I have zero problem with the JPEGs. You usually don't print poster sized prints from JPEGs, shoot RAW if you are doing that, and this camera excels at RAW.  I posted a Santa cropped 25 to 1 in the image gallery that was taken at the default JPEG settings of the camera.  It is plenty sharp.   I think some of the online reviews might have been testing JPEG settings at non-ideal focal lengths for the kit lens or something.  RAW is even better of course.
As for my pros, they speak for themselves.  The camera feels high quality in my hands.  It does have a plastic body, but it is over a sturdy metal frame and the plastic feels high quality.  All mechanical actuators (like flash and SD and battery compartment releases) also feel high quality.  The shake reduction is wonderful, and I have gotten many good shots at up to 1 second exposure with it, but if an item is really close to the camera, don't expect a lot of help.
All my old manual focus lenses work great.  My beauty is my 50mm SMC Pentax-A f/1.4, razor thin depth of field at f/1.4 and crystal sharp by f/4, and it is easily one of my favorite lenses for this camera.  This lens even allows the camera to control its aperture (A designation).  
If you do use manual lenses be sure to set the camera to allow use of the aperture ring through the menu. Also be careful with some old lenses, they have a pin that will stick in the autofocus screw drive and get the lens stuck, use a feeler gauge to dislodge the pin and remove a stuck lens.  This electrical contact pin can be removed or ground off if necessary (my Albinar had this pin).  I think this is on the Ricoh mount lenses.
Words cannot describe how happy I am with this camera.  Photos can, and I have plenty of them.