ID: B0000B005N-R24MPJP5BBKC00-AHX85752NA9EC
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Labs-NOMAD-Jukebox-Player
ReviewerID: AHX85752NA9EC
ReviewerName: Che Guevara "ciao"
Date: October 24, 2004
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: Do your research and don't fall for the hype (i.e iPod)
Content:
I live in the United Arab Emirates , and since theres not much of a gadget "fever" here like other places , I've mostly relied on Amazon's members' reviews , which didn't always prove to be scientific .....
I'm a relative late buyer of the NX , I bought it in the beginning of Sep 2004 .
So here's the story , I needed mammoth storage device , for I have a huge collection of MP3s in 4 languages ..... I did my research and narrowed it down to 3 items , the iRiver 60GB , iPod 60 GB , and Creative Xtra 60 GB .... aiming for the best (or so I presumed) ..... 
And in the midst of my "quest" to find my dream gadget , a nearby retailer was clearing out the older merchandise , so there I saw the Nomad Zen NX 30 GB ,with a price tage of about 150 dollars .... which was amazing as compared to the iPod's hefty 600 dollars (in the UAE) ... I had other gadgets in mind to buy , such as a PDA/Surround ...etc .
I usually trust Creative because I've been using its products for a number of years now , and they always proved top notch when it came to sound products , so I reluctantly bought the Zen NX (after reading the hysterical BUY THE IPOD!!! Amazon reviewers) unable to ignore the 4x price difference .
Well heres the juice : 
1- You DON'T need a radio , voice recorder , games , calendar , address book , or any of that babble , most of these specs are available on new age Nokia and other mobile phones .. so its more sensible to get it (IF you need it , because you're paying a hefty difference for these) in a PDA or an advanced mobile phone .In the beginning you might wander around the menu a little , but later on , it only boils down to music playing.
2-NO matter what they tell you , the menu of any handheld device is tiring to venture through , so the least options the better ...... more needless specs complicate things .
Now my review of the Zen NX :
1-Sound Quality : Superb ! I wasn't disappointed to trust Creative on this , specially if you have a Creative surround system/sound card . I'm a semi-pro musician , and I was very impressed by the sound quality .
2-Battery life : It lives up to the 14 hour line , and I use EAX sound effects , so maybe 11-12 hours for me , which is still great .
3-User Interface : I'm beginning to wonder if the iPod is some mystical creature from the garden of Eden ..... because 45 minutes after unpacking the NX (without reading the manual) I knew every nook and cranny in the NX system ... so I'm wondering how easier it can get .
4-Harddisk : After filling 18 Gbs out of 30 , the delay time is very minimal and only if you open an artist with a huge number of songs . You can connect the harddrive to your Laptop (which I did) and its a high quality harddrive .
5-Design : Matter of personal choice , but the front cover never fell off although i did drop the player quite a number of times .
There are some cons , such as not having an LED controller on the headphones' wiring ..... but hey , organize ur playlists and you won't need it , plus , considering the price ... you can't expect it all .
Bottom line is : If you want a fashion statement , go for the iPod (although the trend is fading into oblivion) , if you want a good easy-to-use does-the-job gadget , I highly recommend the Zen NX .