ID: B0009GZANC-RDI9F36AVV6Z9-A34CFG3JR0IKB8
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-Camera-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G
ReviewerID: A34CFG3JR0IKB8
ReviewerName: Vladimir Kushnir "vkus"
Date: January 4, 2006
Helpful: 19 of 19
Rating: 5.0
Title: Terrific camera and nicely priced too
Content:
I have this camera for 2 weeks. It is my 3d digital camera (the second was Olympus C-4040 Zoom, which is a great camera too). This is my first digital SLR, and it is a pleasure to take pictures with. The quality of the pictures is superb. I also tried to take photos of the sportsmen jumping from an Olympic trampoline in Lake Placid, NY, and I was amazed with the results.  While the jumper flies in front of me (I was positioned to the side from the point of actual jump), the distance is constantly changing, and I can not keep him exactly in the center all the time, because the whole event is too fast. Nevertheless, most of the shots are amazingly in focus, so auto focus works magic.  The manual is reasonably clear, it was more or less easy to understand what they mean. The enclosed 256 Meg memory card holds about 130-150 pictures in medium resolution (JPEG files are around 1.5M), but when I switched resolution to high, the number of pictures shrank to 20-something, so I bought SD card of a 2 Gigabyte capacity on Amazon (attention: the camera takes SD-type cards, I first bought CompactFlash card, which of course, did not fit). The big memory card comes very handy even with medium resolution shots, if you start taking pictures in "automatic" mode, shooting 2.5 pictures per second in short bursts - the 250 M card does not last too long. The battery life is incredible. So far I charged the battery once, went on vacation, shoot almost every day in daylight and in night conditions (with a flash), at room temperature and in cold (it was around 22 F) and downloaded pictures to lap-top, and a couple of times forgot to switch it off, and battery indicator still says it is full. The camera comes with software on CD, but I did not get to it yet. So far I just connect the camera to the lap top with Windows XP, and it recognizes it as an additional hard drive, and I just drag the JPEG files from there. The camera feels very nice in hand (I have it with 18-55 mm zoom auto focus lens) and actually is much lighter that I would have expected by looking at it. In addition several people around said "this is a nice camera" and I could not agree more.  The only thing I found silly, is that while the camera knows that some shots are taken in "vertical position" (e.g. `portrait', rather than `landscape'), they do appear in a right orientation while viewed in the camera, but not in the computer, I still need to use software (such as PhotoShop) to turn them 90 deg, but this is a small matter. Another thing is colors. I've chosen it for amazing colors, and happy with it. But when I shoot with a built-in flash, the colors are not so amazing anymore. I will try an external flash.