ID: B0000C8VU8-R2YOJXOW59ZNY9-ARKOQ4QOJKDHE
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-6-3MP-Digital-Rebel-Camera
ReviewerID: ARKOQ4QOJKDHE
ReviewerName: R. GollobinLightstruck Images "Ron Gollobin/L...
Date: November 22, 2004
Helpful: 44 of 44
Rating: 5.0
Title: Superlative camera
Content:
I am a semi-pro photographer and have used high-end Canon film cameras for years.  I bought the Digital Rebel about four months ago and have been absolutely delighted with it.  One of the most amazing things about it is the number of shots on a battery charge (Li-ion) with the flash.  I use two 512 MB Compact Flash cards and I can fill one of them up in a session on a single charge and can start on the second flash card.
One proviso:  The 18-55mm lens that comes with the kit is excellent--it is light and versatile.  However, most of my shooting is done with the Canon 28-70mm 'L' lens which is a professional, high quality, very fast lens with incredible resolution.  This lens is also much heavier and the large lens barrel partially blocks the little pop-up flash.
I have set up my film cameras on a tripod and side by side, shot Velvia film using the same lenses and subject, along with the Digital Rebel.  While the saturation of the digital images is not as pronounced as with Velvia film, the detail is quite similar.  Very few editors could spot which image was Velvia, except for the color saturation.  Otherwise quality is comparable.
For demanding pro work, photographers will probably want more than the 6.3 MP of the Rebel.  For me, it is absolute heaven.  My marketable shots are heavily composed and lit. Getting instant feedback, even on the small monitor is just heaven. 
I see no drawbacks for the Digital Rebel.  If  you are a casual snap shooter, or more advanced, prepare to be wowed.
One additional note:  I made a great shot--good enough for a poster--so I had Kinko's make a 2' x 3' poster from this shot.  The poster was only 200% of the original and there was absolutely no discernable pixelation.  Simply incredible!
I am a tough judge of photographic equipment, but Canon got nearly all of this camera right.  The sensor, metering, auto white balance,bracketing,lack of shutter lag, auto power shut-off are so consumer friendly and common sense right out of the box, I was bowled over.  The more sophisticated controls are available too, when I want them.
This is one tremendous product.  My biggest complaint is the interface is USB 1.0 and downloading to a computer is slow.  Zoom Browser Ex, a supplied software that comes with it is adequate, but there are better programs out there.
Ron Gollobin/New England