ID: B000HHJ13I-R3T60K8MSW8I1P-A1H08N0SONUW2A
Category: AirConditioners
Product: Soleus-Air-LX-140-Evaporative-Dehumidifier
ReviewerID: A1H08N0SONUW2A
ReviewerName: Davey Williams "davey williams"
Date: April 3, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: One of the best in its class, does what it says within limitations
Content:
I have owned an operated four different models of portable ac over the years, and thus far the Soleus LX-140 has surpassed them all. As the other reviews state, you will not get quite the cooling capacity or functionality of central air or a quality window unit, but that's not what portable ac units are for, is it? If you use it for what it's designed to do - that is, be a supplemental unit cooling one or two rooms, it works great.
Cooling capacity - This unit cools better than any of the other portable AC units I have used. Like all air conditioners, the cooling capacity depends on the room you are using it in. In my personal tests of the unit, I found the LX-140 capable of the following:
1. 250 sq ft room, 85-90 degrees outside, sunny day time, drapes closed, room reduced to 72 degrees within an hour.
2. 250 sq ft room, 80-90 degrees outside, night time, capable of reducing room to low 70's or upper 60's and maintaining all night.
3. 250 sq ft room, 95-105 outside, sunny day time, drapes closed, unit can reduce temp to low 80's and maintain.
4. 500 sq ft room, unit can get into the lower 70's at night, but during day will max out at reducing temp to 80 when it's 90 outside or 85 when it's 105 outside. 
This is far superior to other portable ac units. Other benefits include that it's quieter than my other units have been, and it produces a heck of a lot more airflow. 
On the downside, the internal tank for water collection is a little small and can fill rapidly on humid days. Unfortunately, there is no alarm for when the tank gets full, and it will just overflow all over the place if you don't empty it. During the most humid parts of summer, I empty daily to prevent overflow, although really you can run it three days straight without emptying. When it's not humid, I never need to empty it (the unit evaporates the water itself). Therefore, if you plan to operate in Florida or some like clime, you should use the included hose and drain the water out a window or into a bowl. 
The other downside is the slightly useless remote. The unit control panel is on the top of the unit, so you can't see it from across the room, and the remote kind of tells it what to do and kind of doesn't (this is hard to explain, but it's a really weird remote). Therefore, if you get up in the middle of the night and decide you want to reduce the temp and try to use the remote, it may do what you're asking, or it may turn the unit off, or it may shift it into heater mode. Weird. So, you usually have to go to the unit to adjust anything other than turning the unit on and off. I shoudl mention that the "timer" feature is also completely within the remote - it has a clock and if you sit in someplace it can 'beam' the on command at a certain time of day, it will. This works so-so, with the remote sometimes turning it on and sometimes not.
These small downsides can be somewhat annoying, but fortunately they all have to do with ancillary features of the unit rather than functionality itself. As far as the ac performance, this is the most powerful and capable unit I have come across in this price class, and overall is a great value.