ID: B000HGIWN4-R1ZH5PJ0DLMJUM-A2V99RXY8L0HL7
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-135mm-Zoom-Nikkor
ReviewerID: A2V99RXY8L0HL7
ReviewerName: Ricardo
Date: August 10, 2007
Helpful: 48 of 48
Rating: 4.0
Title: A Few Nits to Pick
Content:
With 93 D80 reviews already posted, the world needs another one like it needs higher oil prices. In any event, we all have our opinions so I'll impose mine upon you now.
After 30+ years of shooting with Nikon film cameras, I decided to stick with the brand when switching to digital. It was a tossup between the D80 and D200, as either of them would fit my needs. 
Since my eyesight now requires auto focus, the fact that my manual focus Nikkors will not meter with the D80 but will with the D200 didn't make a difference. That being the case, I saved a few hundred dollars and bought a D80.
Cutting to the chase, I am amazed by the image quality. It took a few hundred shots to "zero in" on the settings that I prefer, but now it turns out very consistent results.
If I'm so satisfied with the D80, how come I only gave it 4 stars? I'm glad that you asked. After 4 months of ownership, I think that I've found some weaknesses that I hope Nikon will address with the D80's replacement.
1- Matrix metering, as configured in the D80, is too sensitive to very light or dark areas in the center of the frame. With a dark central area, it's far too easy to blow out the highlights. When they're gone, they're gone. No amount of magic can put back what isn't there to begin with. Sure, you can dial in some exposure compensation, but why should you have to?
2- Dear Nikon, Please, Please, Please put a stiffer detent on the door for the SD card. I'm really tired of finding it open in the middle of a shoot. It's only a matter of time until I find that it's snapped off.
3- Speaking of detents. An interlock is needed to keep the mode dial where it's placed. It's far too easy to wind up in some idiot mode instead of remaining in aperture priority. Nothing is worse than having the flash pop up and fire because the dial slipped.
4- While not exclusive to the D80, Nikon is the only manufacturer that does not include a fully-featured RAW converter in its software package. What's up with that? RAW is all that many advanced amateurs and pros shoot, so why isn't a converter included? It wasn't a deal breaker for me, but I felt like my pocket was being picked. 
Anyway, it's all about the images and those that come out of the D80 are as good as I've ever seen from a camera in this class. When I look at the 16X20 prints on my walls I'm almost ready to give Nikon that extra star. Almost, but not quite.
Enough with reading reviews.....go to your local camera store (if you still have one) and wrap your hands around the cameras you're considering. Trust me, you could be out there shooting instead of wasting so much time reading reviews. :-)