ID: B0001A9C6C-R2M199HE9VZ828-A1KPJ7DX14YQZH
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-mini-M9437LL-MODEL
ReviewerID: A1KPJ7DX14YQZH
ReviewerName: Ava Dempsey "Ava"
Date: January 13, 2005
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Beware, the ipod mini is addictive!
Content:
First of all, before you even consider purchasing an ipod mini, check that you have all the required components! If you want to enjoy a superior quality music player, expect to put in a bit of work, by ensuring your computer is properly equipped!
When you first bring your ipod home, it seems daunting to set up. Before i got the ipod, i didn't even know what a USB port was. I just found a hole on my computer, and figured that must be it! I definitely don't advise this though!
So if a technically challenged 16 year old can figure it out, I'm certain everybody can! The novelty and excitement of owning an ipod mini can certainly cloud your judgement, I've encountered a few problems, but it's gorgeous appearance and cool features always seem to outweigh it's flaws! 
I  think it is overpriced, but I love
that it comes with basically everything you need to get started-
it includes power adapter, 2 cables, itunes software CD.    
Surprisingly, the itunes program is a pleasure to use, and you can have a whole CD transferred to your itunes library in a matter of minutes.
Once you put a CD into your computer, itunes automatically converts the songs into AAC audio files (superior in quality compared to mp3's). Plug your ipod into
either a USB port or firewire port with one of the included cables, and the songs will begin to transfer. In my opinion, the sound quality is just as good as listening
to the actual CD. I hardly listen to the radio anymore,
because I have the handy option of listening to my favourite
songs instead! The menu is easy to navigate, songs can be
organised into various categories, games are included, a backlight and alarm is offered.....all in all, a beautiful little product.