ID: B00005MF9C-RU2QKMOCZVC46-A19KI4VF7NF9RW
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-DCM18S-Personal-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A19KI4VF7NF9RW
ReviewerName: A. Kathisia
Date: October 28, 2007
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 3.0
Title: 1-Star Now--Bought 2, Switches Broke in BOTH after 9 months
Content:
This is a June 28, 2008 update. If I could I would downgrade the star-rating to 1. When I did the October 2007 review I said that even though the coffee maker only lasted 9 months, I was pretty happy with it overall and I was going to order another one. My thought was that it made decent coffee and it was inexpensive (now I say cheap.)
After the second one lasting only 8 months I give up. I will be looking for something else. In both cases the coffee makers stopped working because the switch seemed broken. With both coffee makers, when the switch was depressed nothing happened. No click, no light, no heat, no coffee. 
I was the only person in my home making coffee. I made 7-10 cups per week on it. I was not rough or abusive with the machines. There seems to be a flaw in the switch. 
First Review:
I liked it while it worked. There is nothing else comparable--especially for the price. Used it daily from January 19, 2007 until today (9 mos) when it stopped working altogether. I am getting another one because it's cheap and convenient. I only drink one cup of coffee per day and my 12-cup coffee makers never tasted good unless I made larger batches.
Coffee quality is ok. Coffee is hot. The mug is small. It is pretty slow considering it's only making 15 oz. of coffee. You can only fill the water reservoir to a certain point before it overflows. Only a certain size cup will fit.
The lid for the mug is useless. It is too loose and drips. I transfer the coffee to another travel mug with a tight lid.
I think the coffee tastes much better using #1 paper filters (can use #2 in a pinch) than the (nylon?) filter it comes with. The filter that it comes with allows coffee grounds  to pass through and the flavor of the coffee is not as good IMO.
If there was something better I would get it. Others say their's have lasted longer with daily use so I probably just got a lemon. Like I said, I'm getting another one.