ID: B000EIWO66-R2FG6RS2T10644-A3TU5EEJU4WHYY
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Royal-RY3050-Procision-Canister-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A3TU5EEJU4WHYY
ReviewerName: Katy J
Date: March 8, 2006
Helpful: 17 of 17
Rating: 2.0
Title: Nice looks and nothing more
Content:
For a full size canister vac, this one has very small bags. Compared to my Kenmore (bag type: 5055, or panasonic C-5), the Royal R type used by this machine are less than half the size of kenmore's.
Bags are extremely hard to come by, and where I live (city of 3 million people) they are nowhere to be found. Had to special mail order them. The price of bags is extremely high: $12 for 3 (including filter). It seems it is the only way to order bags: with filter. Kenmore bags cost me $1 for 2 (available at dollar stores!) and the filter is washable.
Do not be fooled by the advertizing: this machine uses HEPA "type" filtration, where "type" is the key word. Inside you will see two filters which need changing every 6-12 months, at least that's what the manual says. They cost the earth, and I found you can just go to home depot, get a filter for over the range vent for 2 bucks for a huge square, cut a piece you need for the vac and save big $.
Suction is OK until the bag gets half filled when it dropps dramatically.
The suction hose is waaaaaaay too long, by at least 2 feet. It tangles and gets in the way.
The lighted power brush attachement lights up the ceiling but not the carpet in front of it.
The power cord that is used to connect the power brush has to be plugged in under the carry handle which totally prevents you from lifting the vac and carrying around, who would design it this way???!?!?!?
Not all attachments fit "on board", the floor brush does not and has to be stored separately.
This machine is also available under the name: Dirt Devil power pak, or Jaguar (do not mistake with the "breeze").
I am dissapointed with the machine and the headache of finding the bags and the rip-off price they cost.