ID: B000OK0YWK-RLHRFD7VTVWX2-A1A5GREM952V8M
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Red
ReviewerID: A1A5GREM952V8M
ReviewerName: Andrew
Date: March 12, 2007
Helpful: 15 of 20
Rating: 4.0
Title: There is room for improvement...
Content:
My Cowon iAudio X5 is pretty much standing on its last legs, so I decided to pick up a white Zune at Best Buy (I had some Reward Dollar coupons to blow, otherwise it would have been an Amazon purchase for sure).  Determined to get the full Zune experience I also decided to sign up to the Zune Marketplace via the Zune Pass, which is a subscription based music service with unlimited downloads as long as you remain a subscriber, at $14.95 a month. Yay for me!
Upon opening the box my initial impressions were 100% positive.  The overall design of the look and design of the player are what won me over the iPod--namely the larger screen, the scratch resistant finish, and a set of simple controls I am used to.  There is no touch sensitive wheel here, only a basic 4 way directional pad with center select button, a play/pause button and a back button, which works very similarly to other DMPs out there like the X5 and Toshiba Gigabeat. The music playing options are also pretty robust, from choosing playlists based on genre, artist, album, as well as both custom and downloadable playlists, which is a refreshing change from the tree-based X5 file interface.
The Zune works seamlessly with the Zune Player software, which is included on CD and is essentially a re-skinned Windows Media Player with Zune specific menu options, and a built in Zune Marketplace storefront.  The software itself seems stable enough, and the interface is very streamlined and simple to use.  No lockups as of yet synching and unsynching my Zune while running multiple programs on Windows XP MCE. I'm guessing software updates are fixing problems people have encountered earlier.
The Zune is, for the most part, your standard fare when it comes to MP3 players.  At $249 for 30GB it's middle-of the road in price and abilities.  Like most other DMPs, it is a fairly capable device that plays, WMA, MP3s, and non-protected AAC (a nice surprise) music files, and WMV, MPEG4 and H.264 coded videos. The size of the Zune is slightly larger than the latest iPods, but that is made up for by the beautiful and large 3" color screen with a 320x240 pixel resolution. Battery life averages out about 12 hours because of it.
The Zune also has some other pretty cool features that not too many people know about.  For one, having a built in FM Tuner is very nice (although not having FM recording like the X5 is a downer). Another touted feature of the Zune is that it is WiFi enabled -- unfortunately it is not very well implemented in its current state.  About the only thing you can do right now is wirelessly send songs along with a "three play license" to other Zunes. And honestly this is a lame feature.  Hopefully a Firmware upgrade will fully enable the Zune to shared media back and forth with a PC or 360 via WiFi.  Here's to hoping. Another great feature is how it works so seamlessly with an Xbox 360.  While you can't connect and share music via WiFi (yet), a quick USB hookup to the 360 and your Home Theater system means instant music with great quality through your home speakers.  Another interesting tidbit -- you can use Xbox Live Marketplace points to buy songs from the Zune Marketplace, and vice versa for Xbox Live content.
The Photo Viewer is very well done, and pictures show up nicely and in very good resolution on the Zune screen.  When I think of the Photo mode i am reminded of my friends and sister's wedding photos, and how great it would be if they all owned Zunes.  That way they can show me a slideshow that changes those wonderful photos every .5 seconds instead of having to flip through a deck of prints and ooh and ahh for 2 minutes before shuffling to the next one.
Video is also nice-looking on the Zune, but unlike the iPod there's not a lot of downloadable video content like TV shows and movies.  As a matter of fact, there is no video content on Zune Marketplace. For any other type of video you may have, however, it's very simple to convert, download and play them on a Zune using the included software.
And that's the major negative right now about the Zune -- content.  The Zune Marketplace is very promising especially from someone who is very open-minded and enthusiastic about music in general, and likes to listen to new material without prejudice. In this scenario Zune works extremely well.  For instance one day I had fancied listening to the latest dance/electronica music.  A quick look at the Zune Marketplace and they have a section of playlists where you can find stuff like this.  A simple click and I had downloaded "The Best Electronic 2006" featuring artists I had no idea existed.  But d***, the music was good. Microsoft has hit on something good here, for sure.  On the other hand, the content is not as nearly as robust as iTunes. 
The other negative in my mind as a wannabe audiophile is that Zune does not support my two favorite formats, FLAC and OGG. True uncompressed like WAV is impractical, so having a good compromise like FLAC kept my ears happy.  Oh well, I guess 192 kbps MP3s will have to do.
Overall, I'm pretty happy with my new Zune.  It works very well as a music player, and as a photo and video viewer.  The interface is nice and clean both hardware and software-wise, and it's combination of compact size and large display make it a winner in my book.  I intend to hold onto it for awhile and am sure will serve its duty well as my main portable media player for the next couple of years. Hopefully its main shortcomings -- downloadable content and more robust WiFi, will be addressed by Microsoft in the upcoming months. A fully WiFi enabled Zune with killer content would make the Zune as easily attractive as any other player, iPod included.