ID: B000OK0YWK-R2UTZO9NR2CVEY-A2ST3ZQNASIRQ1
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Red
ReviewerID: A2ST3ZQNASIRQ1
ReviewerName: S. J. Danielczyk "DCheck"
Date: November 29, 2006
Helpful: 26 of 39
Rating: 1.0
Title: Don't buy an mp3 player this season
Content:
Let me start by saying I was really happy when I heard iPod was going to get some competition. But the Zune fell flat. 
After owning an iPod mini (which I was happy with) for about three years, I decided in July to get a new mp3 player. Hearing rumors about a full-screen iPod with touch-screen capabilities, I decided to wait. Then I heard about the Zune. A bigger screen than the iPod, WiFi enabled, AND I figured, as it is competing with one of the most successful electronics, it has to be very good. Wrong.
The Zune is a prototype. I thin Microsoft rushed to finish it before the holiday season, and it shows. The WiFi isn't good at all, and there aren't enough other Zune-users to use it at all (I have yet to find a good use for it, and I go to a college in the city). Since the Zune service (one pro to this product) doesn't have videos or tv shows, the screen size doesn't matter. The screen is clearer, but I am comparing this to an iPod mini...so.... The color choices (while limited) offer some pretty unique things, but I agree with one reviewer that it looks like iPod's ugly step-brother. It isn't cool looking, and it is semi-clunky. Another disappointing feature is the limited number of options. There are three Zunes, in comparison to I think over 10 iPods. There is no cheaper, smaller nano equivalent, and for those on a big budget, there isn't any shiffle or SanDisk size player. Microsoft needs to fix this.
Now, a few pros. 
The Zune music Store has a subscription service. This is much more convenient that .99 cents per song. Despite this tough, there doesn't seem to be much music available, and as mentioned, no videos. Like iTunes, you can only play these songs on a Zune, and you can only put songs on your player from the store.
The back engraving is the final pro (pathetic, yeah, but cool). "Greetings from Seattle!"...a smack in Apple's face. 
Despite the engraving, this product isn't good enough to knock the iPod off it's high horse. My suggestion is not to buy an mp3 player this season. If you were going to get one as a gift, give a rain check. Apple is rumored to be releasing an iPod phone in January, and the Zune lineup will likely be expanding too. Wait. The Zune will probably get better, and Apple appears to be making more technological jumps.
Pros-
-Zune Store subscription
-back engraving
- FM Tuner
Cons-
-bad sound quality
-bigger screen is useless, as there few to no videos to watch
-little to no WiFi capabilities
-clunky and ugly
-lack of models
all I can suggest is to wait...wait until 2007!