ID: B0009VELUA-R24AQL86PAC2HD-A3NKPTO1V25QNW
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-2000-Coffee-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3NKPTO1V25QNW
ReviewerName: D. MATHIAS "Living in the REAL world..."
Date: May 14, 2008
Helpful: 5 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Knowledge is priceless...
Content:
Problems of LEAKING reviews by others is "operator error" and ignorance... The directions are clear not to OVERFILL (if you do, it'll leak out the back spout/handle)... Says NOT to open the lid for 10 minutes or condensation will run off the back... (people are trying to remove the used grounds immediately, causing their own problem)... Some claim the "fuel gauge" for coffee doesn't work (it'll say empty UNTIL coffee is brewed!)... and the side water level, it will show amount of water added immediately, then as it brews, that level will go down to zero, while the "fuel gauge" on front, continues upward... Directions also state that the bucket 'handles' should be FORWARD or it impedes the coffee flow, which will spew it out... (easy enough to place them forward people!)... Do NOT use too finely ground coffee as it BLOCKS the water from flowing thru to the reservior.... (water has to go somewhere, so it will overflow)... "Medium" ground is stated by the booklet!!!!... READ IT!!!!!.... The people who claim it stopped working MAY be legit... Make sure the basket AND filter are both ALL the way down or the station will NOT function... I agree that things can break, but most every complaint written in these reviews is pure lack-of-knowledge because the people did not fully read the booklet that came with the product... I love this brew station... If you use it as Cuisinart directs, it does not leak... Make sure the clock matches the programmed time, else YOU will think it broken ... If you set it for 7pm, it will not turn on at 7 am... Users are to blame for 90% of the bad comments on this wonderful coffee maker...Definitely worth buying... Coffee stays hot, tastes great, and is extremely EASY to operate