ID: B000LF2CBE-R24VE4FAJFLUMG-A3V6Q7MA4UVA6Q
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Stanley-675900-Pro-Ceramic-Pivoting-Utility
ReviewerID: A3V6Q7MA4UVA6Q
ReviewerName: In Florida Recovering from Being Abused in Texas
Date: December 31, 2007
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best Heater on the Market
Content:
I originally purchased one of these for the garage and tested it out in our living room to see how well it worked.  It was fantastic and heated up a large living room area in just a few minutes.  
Since our local city government in Corpus Christi loves to raise our utility rates for gas every chance they get (even though the market price goes down) and the kilowatt per hour rate for electricity hovers around .15 in Corpus Christi (no kidding), I decided I needed an indoor portable heater that would cut the gas bill and be economical on electricity.  This unit fits the bill on both counts.
Some of the raters noted that it is noisy, or that it puts out too much airflow.  I tested this unit side by side with a Lasko Designer Series Oscillating Ceramic Heater and there was absolutely no difference in the noise even though the Stanley heater had a higher air output.  As for the criticism of the strong airflow created by the heater... That is exactly what I want!  Something that will get the air moving, heat the room and then shut down.  I don't want a heater constantly running in the background, but this is just my preference.
The Designer Series Oscillating Ceramic Heater also made by Lasko seemed to attract our cats due to the movement, something we didn't want.  But this is a quality unit, both well built and stable.  Granted the Lasko Designer Series Oscillating Ceramic Heater may look like part of the furniture, while the Staley heater is bright yellow, but I don't want to trip over a heater that blends in with everything else in the house, so I see that a safety feature.
Having lived in New England I can understand that it may not have the BTU output to heat a garage (even one that is insulated) in that part of the country or other colder regions.  In those areas, I doubt an electric space heater is going to help you.  It's been my experience that a kerosene heater like KeroSun is the way to go.
If you live in areas that are cool in the winter, I would highly recommend the Stanley ceramic heater by Lasko to supplement your primary heating system in the garage or in the home.