ID: B0000SWDR0-ROSW0R521IGMU-A1O80ZM0EOY89U
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-Vacuum-Cleaner-EL6989A-Canister
ReviewerID: A1O80ZM0EOY89U
ReviewerName: Thomas "Tommy"
Date: October 21, 2005
Helpful: 10 of 12
Rating: 2.0
Title: It sucks in more than one way .
Content:
EL 6989A replaced my still working  22 year old Sears canister vacuum . I wanted a new one with HEPA filter . I use 3 large HEPA  filter in my home (I lazy trying to avoid dusting ). I ordered a reconditioned unit on Amazon got it in on the 7th day from order day. I live in a small house hardwood floors with short extreamly short nap area rugs . Bedroom has a pile carpet . Power head lasted less than 45 min. and broke a belt . Called tech support they said take it to there service center which was about one mile from my home . They didnt have a single part for the unit yet they were the service center he had hundreds of belts but not this belt he even tryed to use another brand . Came home called again lady said as a courtesy she ship me a belt I asked for 2  and she agreed . I was  also told I should be able to find the belt at say Sears Walmart a long list of places so it should be able to find one  no problem where ever you buy your vacuum bags .Well with gas a near 3$ a gallon that cost me about 15 $ didnt  find a single belt . Lowes stocks this unit and its bags  and maybe the HEPA filter but no belts think Sears might have had the bags but that was all. I went to over ten different types of store that didnt sell any items for it . Came home decide I was getting the run around by this company and that I could not trust them to send me a belt since on another call I asked for a tracking number and they couldnt give me one . I was going to make this vacuum work for me especially  after I read on page 19 of the owners guide "As a matter of warranty policy, Electrolux will not refund the consumer's purchase price. " So I tried to look up parts on Electroluxs site could find the bags filter but no parts breakdown of the unit and parts breakdown was shipped with the unit so I had to call and do it on the phone . Well the bags price  were higher than what was said on the web site when I ordered them . So I ordered bags (think there are 3 differt types )  belts , and two wands ( tubes ) since all vacuum tubes are short and make me lean over when using it also I  vacuum the walls and ceilings spiders webs and such . My order arrived in 3 days  the courtesy belts in a week . I was also told on the phone the belt only last 6 months have spares . It doesnt say that in the manual .  
 Preformace of the vacuum . It fills the bag up pretty quick so its working hard . It removes my cats hair that worked its way into that short nap carpet , I like the on and off power switch on the hose handle real nice for crossing hardwood floor  from carpet to carpet in my case , the HEPA filter seems to work well, and it pretty and red and that about all I have good to say about it . 
 Down side its expencive . When the powerhead is on its noise about the same  to my old Sears unit . No internal storage  for the tools so they are spread around the house it has a thing called a tool caddy that attaches to the  back of the unit but it sits on that area when I put it in the closet and the caddy holds 3 tools and the vaccum comes with 5 tools . The tools dont lock on the wands with the little buttons you just stuff them on the end of the tube .  When attached to the powerhead there is free rotation of the wand or tube  of  90 degrees  from 12 o'clock  position to 3 .(When looking toward powerhead)The powerhead has so much torque  you have to hold the handle sideways to its 3 oclock stop position . So you hold it as what I think is called in the movies as  the gangster position as in shooting a pistol . The light ( 1 bulb )  not very  bright on the power head more or less a waste 3 bulbs might improve this (I took the head apart to see if I had burned out bulbs ) . The wands flex at their attach point so it feels sort of wobbly . The hardwood floor attachement  the deluxe floor  brush is real wide and on the hard wood floor it seems to have a hard time sucking up the science diet cat food ( its round small balls ) so I been using the sears floor one which will snap on with the buttons but hard to get off . It kicks out a geyser of hot air straight up its hot if your near the unit not good in the summer but could be nice in the winter we will see . 
 If I would have bought this at a store with a 100 percent satafication return policy I would have returned this vacuum . I see where the reconditioned units come from now . I could have probably disputed the credit card charges but its not worth the trouble .