ID: B000NDZ0OA-R2ZKA1JW50SGF7-A3ND7QCIAAW31F
Category: MP3Players
Product: TrekStor-i-Beat-xtension-Player-Radio
ReviewerID: A3ND7QCIAAW31F
ReviewerName: Bookhound "Shaun"
Date: October 20, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great low cost MP3 player
Content:
This is a great, low cost MP3 player that also doubles as a mass storage device. 
The only problems I encountered were easily remidied. First of all, to prepare the player for usage, I had to go to the website and download the newest player file. However, the newest file did not work. I had to download an older file to actually activate the player. 
Secondly, the USB slot on my desktop was too narrow for this player to connect to directly, adding the small expense of a USB extension. 
Like I said, easily remidied, and the low cost of the player allowed extra funds for additional equipment. 
My main reasons for purchasing this player were the removable memory capability and batteries. I never have good luck when it comes to durability with the built in batteries. This player uses 1 AAA battery and gets up to 8 hours playback, fantastic return for a couple of dollars a time. 
As for the memory expansion with SD cards, this is wonderful. I can categorize my music collection to genres and store each genre on its own card to suit my particular mood. Mass storage at extremely low cost. 
I love the feature that the player has in which it automatically sorts stored files by artist, allowing easy access through the spectrum.
I have yet to use the radio or voice recorder functions, but if they work as well as the rest of the features have, I'm in for a treat.
If you want to store lots of information, don't mind having it on several SD cards, and don't want to go to the expense of an I-Pod, I would definitely recommend this product. 
The SD cards are extremely cheap through Amazon, with certain brands being available between $2.50 and $7.00. You can't beat those prices, and as usual with Amazon, deliveries are prompt and correct. 
One more fantastic feature of this player. Given the memory expansion, you can also use it to store information of a non-musical format, just like a thumb drive. 
To sum up - MP3, mass storage, removable memory, radio, voice recorder, battery operated, thumb drive connector. How can you beat it for 30 bucks?