ID: B000AAWEJU-RBAHQ1R4TZUJB-A8ET1YYYD7QUM
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-Carina-Canister-Vacuum-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A8ET1YYYD7QUM
ReviewerName: Lee Lukaszewicz
Date: May 12, 2008
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 4.0
Title: Unbeatable on hard surfaces
Content:
First and foremost, the cleaning power of this vacuum on hard surfaces compares to none. I cannot speak to the turbo nozzle, as I do not have carpets. I have now owned this vacuum for over six months, and have had the opportunity to use it for many different things. 
The pros: 
Absolutely unbeatable on hard surfaces. 
I am extremely impressed with the swivel head, which really gets close into corners as well as around things. It can also be maneuvered to reach all the way under the bed or couch - no more dust bunnies! (And I have a king-sized bed.) 
The expelled air, which is filtered, blows straight up, and therefore does not blow dust around. 
Its size. Small and lightweight. The canister follows with an easy flick of the wrist. 
Powerful suction, with special settings such as draperies and upholstery, as well as variable suction settings. 
The attachments: Hard floor brush is exceptional. Dusting brush makes baseboards easier than ever, and is also great for leather furniture. Crevice attachment gets into those hard to reach places. Upholstery attachment does wonders on my microfiber couch. 
Cord retraction mechanism is flawless. 
The telescoping wand adjusts easily. 
Rubber wheels and base mean no scratched floors and no marks on baseboards. 
Changing the bag could not be simpler, and its flawless design allows absolutely no dust to escape from the old bag. 
Ease of use makes for a quick vacuuming of the entire house. 
The cons: 
While the attachments are close at hand, their positioning can make it hard to get under the bed with the wand.  They do slide, but I could not position them so that they did not affect my efforts to vacuum under the bed, and find it easier just to snap them off.
At first, I would have said the on/off switch has a feather-light touch. However, over time it has become apparent that you actually have to step on the foremost part of the large button to activate/deactivate easily (made more difficult if you are in socks). Its positioning on the canister makes it inconvenient to reach, and it sometimes requires a balancing act. 
The Antares has a "park" feature which allows for wand storage with the canister either upright or on its belly. While convenient, this park feature is not flawless. Several times, I thought the wand was securely parked, only to walk away and have it fall over. Upon closer inspection, the plastic threads that hold the wand in place are showing significant wear. The plastic looks a bit chewed up. I can only hope that at some time in the future, it doesn't fail altogether. Obviously, a different sort of plastic, or maybe even a metal housing, should be used on future models. 
As you can see, the vacuum is heavy on the pros and light on the cons. It is too bad these few problems are present in an otherwise flawless product. I would still highly recommend this vacuum due to its superior cleaning ability. Just treat your park feature gently, in the hope you do not see the wear that I have.