ID: B00005IBX9-R3J0G0V4SUS5CY-A3QXQKWCR9QVI9
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1200-Central-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A3QXQKWCR9QVI9
ReviewerName: Erin J. Pierce "Pierce Family"
Date: March 16, 2008
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Coffee, Convenient Design: Don't Let Bad Reviews Scare You!
Content:
Reading product reviews is never short of entertaining.  Sometimes I feel as if certain consumers view themselves as "product police" who must hunt for any flaw in design or function in order to save us all from the evil, evil item.  While I have learned to mostly ignore their comments, they still insert a sense of anxiety when it comes time to make a purchase.  Such was the case with the Brew Central Coffeemaker from Cuisineart.  My husband and I have now used this coffeemaker daily for a month, and today I must confess that I did splash some water out of the reservoir as I filled it.  Whether this was due to the poor design of the coffeemaker or the fact that I wasn't even watching what I was doing, I guess I will never know.  True, the step system inside the reservoir that is intended to help you measure water isn't the most convenient, but those who have time to write bad reviews should certainly be able to spare the ten seconds it takes to first measure the water in the carafe.  The carafe lid doesn't hinge, but snaps on and off.  You should know that in case a swingy lid is really important to you.  Our coffee has tasted great and been plenty strong.  We use an appropriate amount of grounds and use a paper filter and have had no issues with grounds overflowing.  My opinion is that if you need to make your coffee "Starbucks strong", accept that as YOUR personal taste and YOU make an adjustment for it, like making two pots of coffee or buying a much larger coffeemaker in the first place.  Overall, we have been thrilled with this coffeemaker, but we also have made allowances for the fact nothing can be perfect.  To expect it from anything will only lead to disappointment.