ID: B00008UI0R-R1MEONMSBSWA5G-A1LZ5Z1OZT262A
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A1LZ5Z1OZT262A
ReviewerName: Austin Scott "austinscott"
Date: March 20, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 4
Rating: 3.0
Title: I hate this thing
Content:
We have had this machine for two years now. I was surprised and a little relieved that I only paid $185 for it. (I see it listed as of this date at $249!) To be fair, I gave it three stars for not making it to the curb before now. Buy extra belts, your going to need them sooner then later. Pay attention to the cryptic symbol on the bottom of the suction head. It's the screwdriver with a circle/slash though it. That means: DO NOT REMOVE THESE SCREWS, THEY HOLD IN THE MOTOR. (lol, yeah I found out the hard way) It takes 7 screws to get to the belt total. 4 to remove the cover, and then three to remove the cover over the beater brush. Lift the beater brush out from the belt side, slip the new belt on, pull the beater brush back into position. Put the screws back in. Get used to doing this. A lot. At least every few months, if like us, you actually use the thing. I'm glad the belts are inexpensive. As for usage, my wife, likes a canister vac. I OCCASIONALLY use it, and I HATE it. It's like wrestling with and an octopus. The 'convenient' self storing cord, either rips the first layer of flesh from your fingers when you actuate the foot device that pulls the cord back into the vacuum, or, it does nothing. It lays there like a snake, pretending to be dead, waiting for you to approach, and just when you think it's safe, ...WHOOSH/SLAM! back into the vac, along with your fingerprints. Did I mention I hate this thing? I would hate it even more if I paid more money for it. I just ordered more belts. After these stretch out and become useless, I will launch this puppy into the back of the trash truck myself, slug back a cold beer, and rejoice as it is crushed flat by the hydraulics of that beautiful truck. I hope this review helps you in your decision on this item.