ID: B0002ZSFU0-RPMQLDGYNBJ3P-ASCYU2AVFOSA4
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Sanyo-SC-Y120-Powerboy-Canister-Cleaner
ReviewerID: ASCYU2AVFOSA4
ReviewerName: I. Cooper "Shewolfnm"
Date: July 7, 2007
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 3.0
Title: I miss my other Sanyo
Content:
I purchased the Powerboy because my other red Sanyo stopped working.
I thought it would be cheaper to just buy another one , and take the red one to a shop when I needed to.
Well, this one is... just ok.
I own my own small cleaning business so my tools get a TON of use, and this powerboy is no exception.
First of all, I find it cumbersome to use. The actual body flows behind me, turns corners well and doesnt flip over easily.
But the hose + handle are another thing.
I read the reviews here first, and just kept the attachments in my basket instead of trying to keep them on the vacuum and I can absolutly understand why people are saying they would get in the way.
Even with out the attachments, the mount is in the way.
I hit furniture, scrape walls.. (sigh) And it isnt because I am hard on this cleaner.
It is because the hose and the handle do not stay attached very well.
Unless you really strong arm the hose, it comes loose during cleaning.
I cant have it stay together 100 percent of the time because it travels in my trunk, or I would just strong arm it... maybe even tape it.
The head works WONDERS on tile, wood, laminate, and concrete floors..
Basically smooth surfaces. Very strong suction there.
With out the brush going, I can even get very short carpet really clean.
( short carpet .. meaning.. things like small throw rugs, patio rugs etc)
With the brush going, I can use it on older wood floors that have seperated a little and it really helps to keep the dirt out of the cracks.
Using the brush on regular carpet?
You might as well get a small black toothed comb and get down on your hands and knees.
This thing is worthless for that.
The brush stops turning and you are just using pure suction which is only enough to get very small TOP debris off of the carpet. Not deep down dirt.
I will say that I like the option of having the suction power where I need it. 
You can set it to super high ( which is fabulous on short carpet!)
Or low which is all you need for sealed smooth floors.
And, the attachments work wonders on ceiling fans, window sills, and furniture.
But , then again, we return to that cumbersome feeling.
hose pops off
handle isnt agile enough to allow you a fine tune on your work
and heaven forbid you so much as touch the sliding power adjuster. It turns off.
All in all, for what you pay if you buy it used, you get your moneys worth. I think I paid around 30 for mine so I cant complain too much.
But I will never buy another one again unless I live in an all smooth floor home and dont have to use it as a tool in my business.