ID: B000F9Y2T6-R3COS3Y7MKH07A-A25C2M3QF9G7OQ
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-7340-Flip-Select-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A25C2M3QF9G7OQ
ReviewerName: Comdet
Date: November 16, 2008
Helpful: 15 of 15
Rating: 4.0
Title: Flip-it versus Hoover Spin Scrub
Content:
I was torn between the Hoover and Bissell models - each seemed to have good and bad points. So I got both, with the idea that I'd return the one that was less capable to do the job. What I found was that both have different pluses, and ended up keeping them both.
The Spinscrub has the advantage in cleaning power. The spinning brushes do a better job on getting tile floors clean, especially rough surface tile. It's also more sturdily built - feels more solid (although that sometimes does not translate into longevity). It's the one I use for large tile expanses, such as in the kitchen and basement. But, the 15 inch width is a drawback in tighter spaces, such as bathrooms.
The Flip-it excels in maneuverability - perfect for getting around obstacles (such as the toilet). Although it lacks spinning brushes, it has the advantage of a cloth pad which does a great job on smooth surfaces. The heat also helps out, especially with sticky messes. It doesn't turn the water to steam, but clearly kicks up the temp (I believe the spec's say 25 degrees). 
I found the best way to use it is to start with the cloth pad attached. That helps even out the water distribution and also helps capture crumbs, pet hair, etc. After one pass with the cloth attached, remove it and put in the scrubby pad. That helps get the floor 99% dry (smooth surfaces) or 90% dry (rough surfaces). 
The cloth pad really shines (no pun intended) when it comes to hardwood or laminate floors. Does a far better job than the Hoover in cleaning and water suction. I don't use the Hoover at all anymore on smooth floors regardless of the size of the room. It may take a bit longer with the Flip-it due to its smaller size, but the end result is much better.
Both are about equal when it comes to disassembly and cleaning - a few parts to take out and clean, but nothing major. Cleaning the unit after using it is very important to keep the crud out of the seals to prevent leaks and clogs. Both have a washable filter, and both require that you dry the filter before using it again (tip - get an extra filter so you're never without a dry, clean filter).
I tend to favor the smell of the Bissell cleaning solution, but the Hoover stuff is pretty good - both have a nice "fresh" smell. Both brands clean equally well, and are priced about the same. Lowes carries the Bissell brand; Walmart carries Hoover (at least in my area).
Bissell tends to be a nicer company when it comes to support. They offer replacement parts and supplies on their website at reasonable prices, and answer emails if you have questions. Hoover is not as responsive, and their direct-purchase prices are rather high.
One nit with the Bissell is that the cord is rather stiff - wish it was more flexible. Also, the water cups (both clean and dirty) are smaller on the Bissell, so you need to fill-up and dump out more often than with the Hoover. 
Regardless of which one you get, get one! You'll be amazed at the amount of dirt that wet mopping leaves behind. Once you start using one, you'll never pick up a mop again.