ID: B0007OIKO2-R239OFMYP2WE6V-A3CT7GDGEHRGIZ
Category: MP3Players
Product: Go-Video-Rave-MP-ARC2-5c-Player
ReviewerID: A3CT7GDGEHRGIZ
ReviewerName: Tony the Tiger "T. T."
Date: April 27, 2005
Helpful: 8 of 12
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good price/performance but some weaknesses
Content:
With WMA recording and 64K encoding, you can get 80+ hours of recording.  With MP3, you get a little less, it seems.  (I mostly put MP3's on first and switched when I saw that the file size for WMA's tends to be smaller.  I used mostly 64 K encoding, and at that rate, WMA sounds no worse than MP3 to me.  YMMV.)
I found the controls and menus easy to master.  It's not an IPod, of course.  An IPod is certainly easier to get through the menus.  I don't like the feel of IPod earbuds, but they do sound better than these, which are, to me, even less comfortable.  The large headphones are more comfortable, but aren't particularly good.  Then again, you get both in the basic package.  Both distort badly at higher volumes.  It also comes with an on-belt plastic holder, which it's hard to get into and out of, and which doesn't fit on any belt I own.
The basic package also includes a few songs and 50 free downloads from e-music.  They have lots of stuff, but not much that I was looking for.  Getting 50 was a great bonus, though, and since I paid just $100 in combination it made it an excellent deal.
It does take a while to get going on startup.  Once going, though, I had no problems.  I've never had to reset it.  It charges either through USB cable or charger, the charger is much faster.  I use the player for maybe 2 hours per day, and it needs to be recharged only after about 5 days.
A collateral benefit of this unit is it's a great pocketable backup over the USB port.  I put an entire tax program on it and transferred it from one computer to another -- no problem.  Later I found I could run the program off the ARC player.  It's more than fast enough for backups.  
For this much recording time, a strong battery and easy operating controls it's a good deal.  I'd suggest planning to get rid of the earbuds or headphones and replace them with a better setup.  (You can get Sennheiser 202's for about $15.  Better sound, more comfortable, and they handle the volume better.)  
If you have the money, an IPod is probably a wiser choice.  For half as much cash, though, this is a price/performance leader.