ID: B000OK0YWK-R16GADTCMUOI52-A1QK4PKRHYJO1I
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Red
ReviewerID: A1QK4PKRHYJO1I
ReviewerName: S. J. Gesualdi
Date: December 28, 2006
Helpful: 2 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Honest Opinion - Really good product
Content:
I read a lot of reviews, here and elsewhere, before I decided to buy the Zune.  I already have a 1G Nano so I wanted a bigger player, and one that had a nice display for pics and vids.  I didn't expect to be watching a lot of movies on it, probably short video clips that I either filmed myself and wanted to show, or ones I downloaded and wanted to show.
So knowing that, I have to say the Zune is exactly what I wanted and works perfectly.  A+.  I installed the Zune software and synched up all my music, video, and pic files first.  I actually took a few days to clean up a lot of junk that I didn't want before I even connected the Zune player.   I also made sure only the folders I wanted synched were listed. I then left it overnight to sync all the files.  I don't know how long it took but everything synched fine, about 25GB of material.  Unlike other people who have had problems with synching, with USB ports, with whatever, I had no problems at all.  My computer is 4 years old, a P4 2Ghz with 1G of Ram running XP, nothing special and it worked perfectly (using the front USB ports which are only USB 1.0)
The Zune software runs smoother on my computer than iTunes does, no stutters or glitches, and seems to use less memory than iTunes judging by the Windows task bar.  As for the player it is no large "Brick" or any other nonsense that you might read.  It is slightly, very slightly, larger than my friends 30GB Ipod, also slightly heavier.  We are talking &lt;5% difference in my opinion here, virtually negligible.  The menus and graphical interface work great and I think are easier to navigate than my Nano.  The screen is bright and pictures and videos look great on it.  The  non-scroll wheel is fine once you stop trying to turn it, took me 1 day and a half.  For someone that has never owned an Ipod it is a non-event.
Only pain in the neck for me was fixing some of the mp3 meta data so the Artists and albums would be correct, not really Zune's fault, more the result of me not doing it correctly originally.  Earbuds are okay, a little too big for my ears but I have probs with my Apple ones also so that is more a genetic problem for me than an indictment on earbuds.  
I have not tried using the wireless sharing yet, nor was that attractive for me.  My interest lies in wireless synching or downloading, something I expect to be able to do very shortly.  Zune marketplace is also a non-event for me as I get my music from other sources including [...] so I can't comment there.  My two cents.