ID: B000A7QH64-R3H62VVC8WLZGY-A2R2KLWPQTO1EH
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Shark-15-2e6V-Cordless-Hand-SV736k
ReviewerID: A2R2KLWPQTO1EH
ReviewerName: Fixup
Date: March 25, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: So far the #1 choice for a hand vacuum
Content:
Length:: 3:14 MinsPower, power and the power! This thing is more sucking than the B&D PHV1800, I compared them side by side. They are equally loud and battery last exactly the same long (10 minutes before power starts going down).
This Shark is 1 pound lighter than the B&D, 3 vs. 4. It is already on the too heavy side and the B&D has crossed the line for a hand tool. To make this matter worse, B&D's handle is not at the weight center; your hand is fatigue very soon while constantly trying to keep it level.
The B&D is a beautiful upholstery with very sophisticated designs, while this Shark is just a simple tool. But it does come with a nice tool - a motorized brush, making it more than a hand vacuum.
It is a better value than the B&D, not just because it is $20 cheaper. Its battery is easily replaceable for $15 (impossible with B&D) and filters can be easily found in a Bath, Bedroom and Beyond (3 for $10). A B&D filter is at least double the price, but it is much more sophisticated, worth the money. The B&D is well worth the extra $20 if you value its beautiful look and very thoughtful extras on using and storing it.
This Shark is actually a SV736N bought recently from KMart for $40. It is green instead of silver and comes with only two tools, a motorized brush and a crevice, instead of three in the earlier version. No more charging dock. These changes are due to the complaints about the crappy wall-mount-ONLY dock and nobody knew what's the 3rd tool for. The current manual also says that you charge it only after you run battery out, as suggested by a reviewer.
If you just want a great vacuum that really works and don't care much about anything else, then this Shark is currently the #1 choice, period. Otherwise get the B&D (yes it is a beautiful piece of art well worth the extra $20). Just don't bother with the crappy $150 Dyson (I respect his cyclonic action invention that changed vacuum ever since) and all the garbage Dirt Devil hand vacs (you know, DD is now owned by a Hong Kong company). If you need a large stick, then get the DD 14.4V ExtremePower cordless stick showing in the video and do a simple modification. See my related reviews for details.
As you can see in the video: the B&D needed the brush head to clean thoroughly flour dent, while this Shark swallowed them all with its bare mouth. You can also see how well its motorized brush did the carpet. The modified DD cordless stick is my favorite and this Shark does what it can't. My main vac is an iRobot Roomba 530, it does all the rooms. All are cordless, will never go back to cords again. I also posted the same video to youtube, that one looks better than this one (youtube did a better job on converting, search for cordless vacuum).