ID: B000VDQ38E-R3DJ4YZKG9CK3K-A1PL7QILVQV3IF
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1PL7QILVQV3IF
ReviewerName: The Taminator "There's no going back. You've ...
Date: July 27, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Gets the job done.
Content:
With a cream point Himalayan cat (he's an off-white, blue-eyed Persian) it's hard to keep the hair from piling up around here. Add to that my own thick head of shedding hair, the standard dirt and dust that everyone gets, and you have a recipe for the nasties. When my sister took my old vacuum, time was ticking and I had to get a new one pretty quickly. This was our least expensive option. 
The belt broke the first day that I used it... not a good sign. The guy at the place where we bought a replacement belt said that Bissell belts are notoriously flimsy. That's third generation info, so you can take it or leave it I guess, but comparing belts side by side, the replacement did seem a lot sturdier. Once we got past that, a quick sweep of our carpets was hassle-free and seemed to clean really well. 
It is heavier than other models and it does make a lot of noise. When you use the hose attachment, the brush on the main vac keeps running, and I'm afraid it might overheat. The hose needs to be about 50% longer, but the attachments run fine and pick up more than their fair share of pet hair. Working with the attachments is a breeze as long as you remember to keep moving the entire unit along with you. I don't use that pet strip; it's not really necessary with the suction power this has. The hose attachment will vacuum up a 9-volt battery if you're not careful!
I am very satisfied with the way this vacuum has removed Mr. Bigglesworth's almost cotton-like cat hair as well as my own thick red hair that I seem to shed & regrow just as fast as he does! I don't know how this would work on coarse, short pet hair, so your mileage may vary. I've had no problems on my bare floors or tile. 
I don't know if a Dyson is better or not. However, with appliances & electronics a lot of times the higher the price, the harder I find myself sobbing when the thing breaks. Should I have invested in a higher-end model? Maybe, but Mr. Bigglesworth can't tell the difference as I chase him around the house with this thing, and frankly, I can't either.