ID: B0009GZAWS-R813CPKBO53D4-A2KDF6X8HNMPV6
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-Camera-18-55mm-55-200mm
ReviewerID: A2KDF6X8HNMPV6
ReviewerName: UncleTrick
Date: June 5, 2006
Helpful: 23 of 23
Rating: 5.0
Title: I can't take a bad picture!
Content:
The Nikon D50. I can't find anything bad about this camera. I consider myself an advanced enthusiast and up until recently I strictly used film cameras. I was skeptical about entering the digital photography world because I equated digital photography with less quality. When I finally decided to "go digital"  I had to find a camera that had a good balance between quality and an economical price. I did much research and really looked closely at the Nikon D50. I was worried that because of the D50's inexpensive asking price that I would be sacrificing quality. I couldn't be more wrong. The photos that I have taken so far have left me breathless. Each photo is very vibrant and sharp with no noticeable noise even at the higher ISO's.
I thought "this is too good to be true" and started looking for situations where I thought the camera would take bad pictures. I used low-light, mixed light, and countless other bad situations and I couldn't get this camera to take a bad picture. I even took a picture of my dog at a distance of 15 in total darkness using only the built-in pop-up flash. The picture was a little blurry but that was due mainly to my hands shaking and the awkward squat I was in to get down to his level.
I am a pretty big stickler for quality and I'm sure there are people who are even bigger sticklers than I am that may be able to find some shortcomings of this camera. Personally, I have found none. The Nikon D50 was one of the few items I have ever bought where I went in somewhat skeptical and wound up being pleased more than I could imagine. It's one of my best purchases ever.
I am also able to use the lenses I had purchased for my Nikon N80 with the D50! Something to consider if you already own many Nikon lenses.