ID: B00005IBX9-R9R0CQBPXM77S-A1M9BA7J07JEA6
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1200-Central-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A1M9BA7J07JEA6
ReviewerName: Domenico Bettinelli
Date: May 17, 2006
Helpful: 16 of 16
Rating: 4.0
Title: Very good, but not hot enough
Content:
I bought the Cuisinart DCC-1200 a couple of weeks ago on the basis of good reviews by both Alton Brown in his book "Gear for Your Kitchen" and America's Test Kitchen/Cook's Illustrated. Only after I'd received it did I realize it was the same coffeemaker a roommate had when I lived with him several years ago, one which I thought was good at the time.
The Cuisinart replaces a manual coffeemaker by Melitta that I used and loved, but which was wearing out and isn't made anymore. I like the manual method because I like to control all the variables, including water temperature.
And while I like this Cuisinart very much, that's where it falls short. While experts vary by a degree or two, most say that a perfect cup of coffee should be brewed at temperatures between 185 and 195F. Unfortunately, the DCC-1200 maxes out at 175F (measured with an instant read thermometer at the end of brewing). This occurs whether I'm making 1-4 cups (there is a special setting that is supposed to brew 1-4 cups at a hotter temp to compensate for the shorter brew time) or more than four.
Other than that, I like the machine. Some people don't like the end-of-brewing beeping, but I find it to be convenient and it's only four beeps after all. I also like that it has a charcoal-activated water filter built in and a decalcification warning, although I haven't had the coffeemaker long enough to know if it works and whether it's just a gimmick. The variable carafe hotplate control is nice as well, because I hate burnt coffee. If I'm going to be leaving a full pot to stay warm for a while, I turn it down a notch, but for brewing and immediate pouring, I leave it high.
Clean up is easy, and the pot doesn't dribble all over the counter when pouring. Some users warn that's too high to fit under some cabinets, which might be true, although I leave it on a baker's rack which alleviates the problem. Overall, I'm very happy with Cuisinart. Now let's see how it lasts in the long term.