ID: B000O161W6-R2AW5ZWZJOII50-A1CTUNHHSMEWDH
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-18-135mm-3-5-5-6G-Zoom-Nikkor
ReviewerID: A1CTUNHHSMEWDH
ReviewerName: R. L. Winkler "Enjoyer of Trek"
Date: June 5, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent choice for most people
Content:
I have owned this camera for a year now. It is an excellent camera. I read through several of the reviews here and wanted to add some comment to some things brought out. Although I am not a professional photographer I do work with digital cameras and have for several years. The D40x is a great choice for people who want the advantages of an SLR camera without some of the pitfalls of such - cumbersome, covered with buttons and requiring multiple settings, etc. just to take a picture. The camera is an advanced technology with its quiet shutter, noiseless focus and great menu system that toggles you through basic settings quickly - ISO, picture quality, white balance (if needed)  You do not need to search around for separate dedicated buttons to set these settings. Users know where to go - the toggle. IF YOU leave it on the first menu set known as shooting menu, switching any of these settings is about 3 button presses to your choice of action.
 Those who noted the lens issues and no sports pic shooting, eh, the camera shoots quickly and it is instantly active upon switching power. If you have a lot of Nikon lenses then perhaps the D80 is best and obviously you are more than an average camera user. Do not be concerned about lens availability though. Something else not mentioned is that many of the DX lenses also have VR or vibration reduction.  Finally the lack of a depth of field PREVIEW is interesting. I did a search on the internet to actually find out what the importance of such a thing was and found two very detailed descriptions. Basically, according to the first website, "few professionals consider the DOF tool in their arsenal...it is rarely used and often criticized for seemingly making the picture appear darker. It can however allow for a preview of creative shots that make your subject pop and all else seem  unimportant"  Hmm. Professionals rarely use it? Why then is it so critical on a camera? Further reading and I realized that this feature's purpose is to set the aperture to what you see in the view finder prior to taking the picture. This seems odd though considering the advantage of seeing shots in a viewfinder and also having aperture priority mode AND automatic modes to compensate for such  tedious work. Professionals may scoff at my description but the point is that unless you are a professional wanting a highly specific tweak on your depth, this camera will do it. The other website I found had a movie showing the advantage of a depth of field preview. The DOF description was the same except the example was a woman standing in the woods. The woman was focused and the background blurred. All while showing how to press the DOF button while looking through the viewfinder, focusing and shooting. With the D40x you can accomplish the same effect faster by turning the knob to portrait and snapping the picture! You can still work at it if you want with the aperture priority setting. Everything is visible from the viewfinder. I just wanted to bring these important points out because this really is a good camera and when things are mentioned that most people do not know what it is other than "this camera is really missing something" then they check it off their list. The automatic settings on the camera produce fantastic results and are what most people would use anyway.  Just don't think the camera can't do it- it can!