ID: B000ETXOC8-R1S07BAFFE3KMZ-A20WGV7YBQYNHG
Category: MP3Players
Product: SanDisk-Sansa-Player-microSD-Expansion
ReviewerID: A20WGV7YBQYNHG
ReviewerName: A. Rotfeld
Date: February 1, 2007
Helpful: 7 of 11
Rating: 1.0
Title: Love the product, hate the customer service
Content:
Okay, let me begin by saying I LOVE my Sansa e250.  Unfortunately, I have had a very small issue with their product which turned into a huge issue...
One day, I was listening to some tunes, when all of a sudden the unit froze up.  I did everything to try to unfreeze it.  I even held down the power button for an extended period of time.  NOTHING worked.  I wasn't about to sit and wait for the battery to die down, so I did the next logical thing.  I grabbed my handy precisions screwdrivers, opened up the unit, and popped out the battery in order to reset the unit.  Problem solved, right?  Ever since then, my screws are constantly loosening up (I jog with my Sansa) to the point that I have lost all but one screw.
I called Sansa for assistance.  The first person I spoke to said there was nothing he could do.  I asked to speak to a manager.  I was told I could go buy a brand new battery replacement pack, because they have screws in there.  I said that was unacceptable because not only do I not need a battery for my BRAND NEW unit, but I refuse to pay $20 for 4 screws which would cost them less than a dollar to send to me.  I asked to speak to this person's manager.  He said there was no one available who was higher than him.  I kindly asked that he have someone contact me, at which point he said "I can pass the message along, but I can't say when or if someone will get back to you."  Excuse me, "IF?"  So you're saying my complaint will be ignored.  He said "no, that's not what I meant.  I just meant that it might be a week or so."  I asked him why it would take a week to get back to me about 4 tiny little screws.  He said "We're very busy here."  Wait, and I'm NOT busy?
My issue was forwarded on, and I received an email response 2 days later stating there was nothing they could do and that I should try my local hardware store.  I wrote back that this answer was unacceptable and that I'd like a different manager to contact me back.  That was 8 days ago.  I went onto the website today, and saw that my case number had been closed, however no one had contacted me back.  
I called customer service again and all the managers were in a meeting.  I called again later and spoke to another customer service rep.  He pulled up my case and read the notes then put me on hold for 8 minutes.  When he came back on the phone he said there was nothing he could do and then repeated all the options that I had already been given (You know, all the totally unacceptable options).  When he mentioned I should buy the battery pack, I told him they should SEND me a battery pack.  That was shot down.  So...After finding no resolution with this CSR, I decided it was time for a new angle and I told him to please send me an RMA so I could return my unit, they could refund my money, and I would buy an iPod.  He said the most that they could do if they gave me an RMA would be to send me a new e250.  I said that's GREAT!  At least it would have 4 screws!  He then recanted and said a manager would need to approve that.  I asked to speak to a manager, but he said they were all gone for the day.
Now I have to call back again tomorrow and speak to a 5th person just to get 4 tiny little screws.  If the unit hadn't frozen up, I wouldn't have had to open the unit up, so I wouldn't have lost the screws, and I wouldn't have to go on this crusade.
Having said ALL of that.  I do love the functionality and optional expandable micro SD slot.  The colors are beautiful, the sound is great, there's not a lot of accesories, but I'm sure there will be soon.  I recommend this product, but if you ever have troubles with it...their customer service is not the best.
UPDATE: After about 8 phonecalls to the customer service, I finally reached a very helpful gentleman.  He wanted me to send a picture of the back of the player to confirm the screwholes weren't damaged.  Management ok'd an RMA.  I am sending back my MP3 player and getting a brand new one...WITH ALL 4 SCREWS!!!