ID: B00008UI0R-R3PEXTST7BIGS4-A102OP9JL4TPZ0
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A102OP9JL4TPZ0
ReviewerName: H. Schlosser
Date: April 20, 2005
Helpful: 65 of 65
Rating: 4.0
Title: Cleans as well as Dyson and Miele
Content:
The title above is a quote from a consumer report source online at : 
http://www.consumersearch.com/www/house_and_home/canister_vacuums/ 
I was looking for a good solid vacuum cleaner to replace my old Eureka which was inherited from my husband's bachelor days. I actually immigrated here a few years ago and not familiar with what America vacuums have to offer. My country usually sells only canisters so I found the upright vacuums an interesting alternative. 
However, in my research, I read that canisters actually suck more powerfully than uprights and I think it would be easier to use it to vacuum the narrow stairs of my townhouse. Thus, it was back to the old canister style for me. 
There were three brands that I had narrowed down to :- Dyson Low Reach or Canister, Bissell Lift Off and this Hoover. I would love to get a Miele but the price was way above my budget. 
I striked out the Bissell because of the dirt cup, it didn't have a cover like the Hoover does. This helps me to control the dust when I dump it into the trash. In addition the canister part of the Bissell was way too heavy to carry around on the stairs. The Hoover canister body is much lighter in comparison. 
As for the Dyson, I tried to get a good deal on Ebay but even through that source, the prices touches around $300. Frankly, I wouldn't mind paying for the high price but it seems that the suction power is about equal and the Hoover has extras like the headlights and retractable cord (which makes life much easier). 
So, I bought the Hoover online at DigitalFotoclub.com for $197. I decided to get the S3765 for the turbo head as my stairs is my main concern. It comes with free shipping too. 
Assembly is pretty easy - I probably did it within 5 - 10 mins. All the controls are on the chrome handle which was great as I don't have to bend down to the canister to turn it off and on. It also has an automatic carpet height sensor which I thought was really smart - no more guesswork for us. To start, I pressed down, "Suction control" and for the carpet, I pressed, "Floor/Carpet" ..wow..the machine ran off and took me along literally. After a while, I got used to it. 
For the stairs, I used the mini turbo head (aka Powered Hand Tool). There's no instructions on how to apply it to the wand. All you have to do is just pop it at the end. The little brush does have the bristles spin around which makes me feel like it's going to give my stairs a deeper cleaning than if I just use the dusting brush. As I got higher, I brought the canister with me and plop it down on the lower steps. My stairs are narrow but it fits there nicely. 
It's also great to reach low places like under the bed or your coffee table coz the handle goes flat down. This gave the same benefit as the Dyson Low Reach.
There are two tools that doesn't have a place on the canister and that's the Hard Floor Tool and the Powered Hand Tool but I don't think that should be a big problem for me. 
The cons are that after a while, the chrome handle with the Windpowered nozzle tends to get a bit heavy. The nozzle is a bit big in my opinion and tough to maneuver around furniture. It also flops down when I pull the handle and nozzle up to avoid cables. I wish the nozzle could stay upright until needed to be flexible. I must say that I got a nice workout every time I vacuum. 
If the canister faces away from the chrome handle, the handle will fall down fast so make sure you're not bending down in it's way. The handle is not that light either. 
With bagless vacuums, we are exposed to the dust. It's easier if we take off the cover in a plastic bag and shake it in there. This is probably the only point that Dyson is better at as they have a system where one just have to push a button to get rid of the dirt. 
The consumer report also mentioned that the Hoover goes to the repair shop quite often so I'm hoping I got a good one. 
Overall, I still think it's a great vacuum and worth the price.