ID: B000GTR2F6-R2XSQ7GXCM4XA6-A3CHIF3EHXCLA5
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Platinum-Single-Cup-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: A3CHIF3EHXCLA5
ReviewerName: R. Smith
Date: September 14, 2007
Helpful: 8 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: So good, I am buying a second one for home. NOT WEAK COFFEE
Content:
I urge you not to listen to those "coffee aficionados" that are writing about the weakness of the coffee. I have had my coffee maker for a week now, and have tried 8 different blends of coffee, from the light breakfast blends to the the more robust blends. I am using the highest water volume setting, 11.25 ounces. The coffee that comes from this excellent coffee maker is not weak, even at those settings. In fact, everyone who has tried coffee from my maker has commented that the coffee, if anything, is a little strong even at the highest setting. My wife's company with an office of 25 uses the Keurig machine, at hundreds of cups per month. Many of the guys like the strongest blends, like Dark Magic. Even the ones who like a real strong cup of coffee add a little water to their cups to weaken it. So don't be hesitant just because of a few picky critics.
Regarding the maker itself, I have to say that it is a thing of beauty to look at. The blue hue with the lights makes it look great, if not a bit gaudy.
It heats up quickly for the next cup. I use the highest temperature setting of 192 degrees F, and that is one hot cup of coffee. Much hotter than I got out of my regular coffee maker. I like the ability to just get hot water out of the machine. You can change the default temperature of the water if you don't like such a hot cup of coffee that you have to wait to drink.
I love the timer settings. It has an auto off feature that will automatically turn off the maker as early as 1 hour from non-use. It also has a timer to allow you to turn on the coffee maker in the morning and off later in the day. I have mine set for 8 am to go on, and 4 pm to go off. 
You can get over 100 types of coffees, including teas and hot chocolate. Also, I recommend getting the optional filter basket/cup where you can use your own coffee to make a cup. It should have been included, but of course they are making all of their money on the coffee. I found two places online where I get the coffee at 40 cents per cup by buying a quantity of about 7 boxes or a 75 buck order. That actually isn't too much coffee to buy as you will find yourself drawn to the coffee machine to make a quick cup whereas in the past you didn't want to bother because of the time and mess. Speaking of mess, I have been using mine for a week and I still do not have a single drop of mess, and there is nothing to clean. just pull the used cup and throw it in the garbage. The used cups are well drained when a cup of coffee is made, and there is no leakage.
The only thing I cannot comment on is the durability of the unit. It seems well built, but only time will tell. It sounds like Keuring will stand behind their product if something goes wrong, based upon other reviews.
I just bought a second one of these for home. I went with the top of the line unit because I can get a large cup of coffee from it.