ID: B000EOWA7I-R2XPRBM5NCF4BM-AOY6PKCNVP9RJ
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: ReadiVac-36104-12-Volt-Auto-Vacuum
ReviewerID: AOY6PKCNVP9RJ
ReviewerName: Barbara Nostrand "Barbara Nostrand"
Date: March 19, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Performs as Advertised
Content:
I purchased this item to clean the inside of my car and generally avoid those expensive vacuum station at car washes. It performs this job pretty well. Yes, you may have to manually dislodge things that are trapped by fibers, but you pretty much have to do that with any vacuum. This vacuum comes with a variety of miniature attachments similar to what comes with a household vacuum cleaner. These attachments are made of black plastic with a rectangular shaft which fits into a rectangular hole in the clear front section of the vacuum.
This vacuum operates by collecting dirt and debris inside the conical clear section which detaches from the blue base unit which contains the motor and a filter. The dust catcher is detached from the base by pushing a mechanical release button. The dust catcher is fitted with a flexible black ring which forms a seal between the two halves of the vacuum while it is in use.
The vacuum does collect both solid and liquid waste. However, I do not recommend trying to use it to collect liquid hydrocarbons such as kerosene. While there is no significant danger of fire, the kerosene or other "light" hydrocarbon will react with the black plastic seal so that it eventually stretches. If this seal stretches too much, the unit can not be reassembled. However, this does not appear to be a problem with water. 
This unit really is a surprisingly powerful wet/dry vacuum which operates off the 12V utility outlet in your motor vehicle. It picks up typical passenger compartment debris from dead leaves to small rocks and water based liquid spills. But, do not expect to have a cyclone in your hand. As already mentioned by others, it does not have an adapter for 115V AC. Fortunately, its power cable is rather long and you should have little trouble reaching the various parts of your passenger compartment.
Finally, I know about the kerosene problem from experience. This little vacuum was effective at collecting kerosene out of interior carpet. However, the seal ring did eventually stretch so badly that I could not reassemble the unit. However, I am still quite satisfied with it and am ordering a replacement.