ID: B000HZ9CCA-RM75LMV5KYSQC-A1YVPBDG2OFMD2
Category: MP3Players
Product: SanDisk-Sansa-e280-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A1YVPBDG2OFMD2
ReviewerName: Leif Sheppard
Date: May 13, 2007
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Sandisk Sansa e280 8GB MP3 Player
Content:
I had no wishes to join the iSheep crowd and worship at the altar of Apple, yet I wanted a capable music player that would allow *me* to choose what music service, earphones, type of music file etc. I wanted to use. Sandisk fits the bill in spades with this player, offering a few more features than the iPod and even having the audacity to list it cheaper. I've owned my player for five months now and the few problems I've had have been very minor. 
For one, while there is a fast foward and rewind feature for videos, it's not particularly useful and can often stop playback. Different speeds of both would've been appreciated. Also, some lament the fact the screen is much smaller than the iPod - something I personally wouldn't have any other way. This fits way more comfortably in your pocket than an iPod, so naturally a smaller screen size is a tradeoff. Second, the pictures fuction works fine, but photos may take a bit of cropping so the player won't resize them awkwardly to fit the screen. The player displays the photos in very rich color though. 
Admittedly, the Sansa is not the best option for those who wish to have the biggest and best picture or video playback on a player - mostly due to the small screen size. But for minimalists such as myself this couldn't be a more perfect player. 
The voice recorder, FM radio, and radio recorder all work perfectly. I've no complaints with their function! 
The most important aspect, the music, is perhaps the most flawless aspect of the player. I've about 1700 songs on the player and haven't had any problems with playback or tags not being read. I've manually added the artwork and tags to each of my files, and the player reads them with no problem.
The only other (again awfully minor) complaint I have it is I would've liked an option to resize the text. I personally prefer a smaller font than the player offers. But as far as I know there isn't any player on the market that offers this option.
Some have commented on the fragility of the buttons or the player itself, it's been my experience that the Sansa is extremely durable. Case in point - I accidentally dropped my player at least five feet to a very unforgiving concrete warehouse floor. While the player was certainly dazed (the screen went black for a moment and it "forgot" what song was playing) it had no permanent physical or internal damage. Clumsy owners have no fear!