ID: B000UV4EU6-R2FS4KP08TWW2K-AJ2P94QY27CID
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Portable-Media-Player-Black
ReviewerID: AJ2P94QY27CID
ReviewerName: Monty
Date: February 23, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Nice player
Content:
I use Windows 2000, and that operating system is not supported whatsoever by this product.  You MUST HAVE XP or VISTA to make any practical use of this product!  Perhaps there is a statement to this effect somewhere in the product description, but I didn't see it and I was a bit bugged by the revelation.  I plan to install a second hard drive in my computer and load XP on it just so I can use my ZEN.  I have loaded many MP3s on my ZEN using a friend's computer and this thing works great.  The sound is much improved by getting some better earphones for it.  I bought some Creative EP-630 earphones and I think these are an excellent choice.  Considering that you can spend $300 for earphones if you want to, the EP-630s are an excellent bargain.  If you want to get a leather case for your ZEN, be sure to consider the one from PCMICROSTORE.  Amazon goofed (I think) by putting this case in the "Apparel" catagory.  All of the other ZEN accessories are listed under "electronics" and it took a little effort to find this case/accessory kit.  Check out my review of this product if you're interested.  I highly recommend it if you're a leather-case person.  Getting back to the ZEN, the functionality is virtually identical to an iPod, and there is no difference in the sound quality if you use the same data rate and earphones.  That little wheel gadget on the iPod is very nice and is the only reason I can think of to buy one instead of a ZEN.  The ZEN will not destroy the files on its host computer like an iPod will if you're not careful.  That alone is reason enough to choose just about any mp3 player over an iPod in my opinion, but most people buy whatever their TV tells them to.  The ZEN is very flexible in terms of its storage and retrieval options, and I found it very intuitive and easy to use.  The display is large and bright enough, and the buttons are spaced conveniently and are large enough for my chubby fingers.  One of those wheel things would be a big improvement, but apparently those are proprietary to Apple products.  That's too bad.  As far as I can tell so far, the ZEN is functionally equivilent to an iPod nano, sounds every bit as good, is considerably less expensive, and is more "open" in terms of available accessories and media compatibility.  If you're trying to choose between a ZEN or an iPod, that decision was an easy one for me.  
PCMICROSTORE Brand Creative Lab Zen Small Wonder 4gb 8gb 16gb Premium Leather Case Cover with Video Stand and Swivel Belt Clip - Bundle with 12v Rapid Premium Car Charger and Home Travel Wall Charger
Creative EP-630 - Headphones ( in-ear ear-bud ) - black