ID: B000SSSQKA-ROH5MR7LT7G34-A3M67Y50ZXDKOD
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Panasonic-MC-CG467-Multi-Surface-Lightweight-Canister
ReviewerID: A3M67Y50ZXDKOD
ReviewerName: Karenann
Date: September 30, 2008
Helpful: 58 of 59
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good for the Price
Content:
I did a lot of research on different canisters when I was switching over from my not so old Hoover upright.  Once I saw the specs on this & it's price tag (got it for about $130 shipped), I had my heart set. Well, it was a hard one to pin down! I ordered 5 times from different co's before I finally found a company that actually had it- right here on Amazon from Beach Audio Inc (thank goodness they actually had it because my house was gettin' dirty!)
   So now I've had it for about 3 wks & love it. OK, there is some bad with the good, but for the price- I'm not complaining & that's some trick. I have a 4 yr old, 2 black cats & a red 40lb dog (oh, and a husband in construction). I also have cream and/or white low pile carpets & hardwood floors in the main areas of the 2200SF house. The dog is restricted to hard wood, but the cats have free roam (of course). 
   With that said, this vacuum has enough suction power for me. It's 11 amps compares well with my 12 amp Hoover upright, though I do have to remove the air driven turbo nozzle to get the heavy stuff w/ the wand. Not too bad because it's just a pop & click out & then back in as I go around the house. The crevice & dust tools are conveniently on board so that's a plus, though the wand itself does the trick for me mostly. Overall, I would say that even though the turbo nozzle doesn't 'suck' (ie the brush is only powered by the air suction)it was worth the trade off to have it so light because my old hoover broke my back & this does not at all. I love that the wand is an easy telescopic click as well.
   I love that it's bagged. My hoover was not & I was getting sick of the mess having to dump it out & get all that dirt & dog grime back in the air & still have it blow 'dog smell' about my house while I was cleaning. Now the crud is cleanly tucked away in a bag I can toss & replace (I found it easy to buy a box of replacement bags off of panasonic's website).
   I love that the canister has 2 handles. I lay it down on the floor & stand it up while I go up the stairs. Easy grab either way. It's light weight for my bad neck arthritis overall.
   OH, and to my surprise- it is equipped with a parking mechanism that wasn't mentioned in the sales pitch. One of my favorite features! Makes it even compare closer to the Miele I was wanting and couldn't drop $600 on.
   I even like the handle grip as I do not prefer the 'ergonomic' type for whatever reason. They seem awkward to me. This is simple design & feels comfy on my wrist without the extra plastic.
   So, my only real complaint would be a shorter cord than I had- but if it were longer... the vacuum would be heavier. Give & take. I can manage 1 room at a time & then just move the plug. I do love that you push a button & the cord sucks back up-- no winding mess. :)
   Overall a very happy camper. I even love the color...