ID: B00006F2MI-ROIP1G8X3IA43-A24ABVT56T6KEN
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Grind-Brushed-Chrome
ReviewerID: A24ABVT56T6KEN
ReviewerName: W. Coons
Date: July 15, 2007
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: This machine has gotten a bad rap!
Content:
Wow! I was skimming through Amazon trying to find a decent espresso machine and was shocked to find all the bad reviews about this product.  I bought this two years ago and still love it.  We make a pot or two of coffee a day and we have had no problems.  Everyone who has coffee at our house always raves about how yummy the coffee tastes.  My mother in law and mother have bought this machine because the loved ours so much.  Now, I am not a coffee snob, but I do know bad coffee from good coffee and this makes good coffee.
Pros:
The machine looks very nice on your counter especially in a stainless steel kitchen.  It is not a huge gorgeous shiny coffee maker, but I think that its counter top appeal is nice.
I love the thermal carafe.  It keeps the coffee nice and hot.  It is usually even warm when I clean it out at night.  I am able to leave the machine plugged in all the time because there is not a hot plate.  No more worrying about leaving the coffee pot plugged in.
I love that it grinds your coffee for you.  I set it all up at night push the program button and whalah. . . fresh coffee when I wake up in the morning.  It is wonderful not having to measure out the beans, grind them up, transfer them to the coffee pot, and wipe up the grounds all over the counter.  It is fabulous!  I know that others have complained about the grinder, but I don't even hear the grinder go off.  My 4-year-old child's room is the closest to the kitchen and it does not wake him up and believe me, he wakes up at the drop of a hat in the morning.  All grinders are noisy because well, they are grinding up beans.  The quietest bean grinder I have ever heard was about $600 and it still made a racket.  So don't let the noise keep you from buying this machine.
Good coffee?  I think so.  I am not an expert, but I think it makes a decent cup of coffee.  It is not a $1,000 coffee maker, it is a $130 coffee maker.  I definitely believe it is leaps and bounds better than our $60 coffee maker.  Now, I haven't traveled the world in search of the best coffee cup ever brewed, but I don't think that you will be disappointed.
The parts that everyone has complained about cleaning up are dishwasher safe!  When I get up in the morning I pull the grinder out (I don't wipe or rinse anything) and toss it in the dishwasher.  I pull the basket out and dump the grinds in the trash and toss that in the dishwasher.  At night I dump what is left of the coffee out and rinse it all out with hot soapy water, pull the parts out of the dishwasher, put my beans in and I am done.  It is not a big deal.  So easy.  You would think that your kitchen was going to be covered by gooey grinds if you bought this machine.  Not so.
You can still use your ground up coffee if there is any around.  We don't typically use ground coffee, because it is gross, but you can still use it if you must.
Cons
The maker only brews 10 cups.  We drink a lot of coffee, so sometimes I have to make another pot, especially if we are having company.  You also will have to clean out the grinder by hand in between pots.  This takes a bit more effort than the dishwashing method, but still not a big deal.
All the plastic on the machine can make it feel cheap to the person making the coffee, but I have had mine for 2 years with out any problems.  Plus, it looks nice to anyone else.
The carafe does pour slowly, but again, I am not sure why people fuss over this.  Is 10 seconds to fill up your coffee cup (Okay, I admit that I timed it) as opposed to 5 seconds going to make that big of a difference?  It stays hot and fresh all morning.  I will wait 5 seconds extra per cup for that convenience. 
All in all I think that this is a good buy for the money.  I would buy another one if mine were to break tomorrow.  My friends and family that have bought one all feel the same.  Don't let the other reviews scare you off.