ID: B000X1T3IQ-R1K8Q4RV2C3KFP-A12MRCRQV18FEQ
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-10-1MP-Digital-Mechanical-Stabilization
ReviewerID: A12MRCRQV18FEQ
ReviewerName: Philip A. Carr "mrphilharmonic"
Date: April 18, 2008
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: A wonderful camera
Content:
I LOVE this camera! The first thing I noticed about this camera was the feel of it in my hand. It was so comfortable, in spite of the weight, that I felt I could easily take pictures all day long in superb comfort. I have tried Canon and Nikon (obviously) and the grip felt compromised compared to the Olympus which was rugged and balanced. It felt like I was never going to drop it either - quite important.
Soon after I bought it though, I noticed that the autofocus was getting less and less reliable until it packed up ALTOGETHER. I was upset as I wanted to take it with me to England but I had to get it fixed for another date soon after I returned from my trip. The people at Olympus were VERY helpful with 'diagnostics' via email and all that stuff. I had to send the camera back to their factory BUT I have to say that I was VERY impressed with the speed and efficiency that it was repaired (from first sending it to receiving it all took less than a week!) and it has performed flawlessly ever since (as you would expect I guess).
I love the 'naturalness' and depth of the colours my E3 produces. The three different displays (veiwfinder, rear and top LEDs) are very clear and once used to, are quite logical and easy to understand. The focus time of the lenses is so fast and so reliable you sometimes have to be careful of using continual focus mode as it zooms in and out at such amazing speed it's quite bewilering. Single mode takes care of it so easily (or of course manual).
I love the auto bracketing adjustments, and that it also does the same with flash too! The built in flash is great but the remote is even better!! 
I'm not experienced enough to go into details for the 'techhies' but the quality of photos speak for themselves and if it makes MY picures look great, then this has to be one TERRIFFIC camera! I would totally recommend it.
If there was any criticism it would be the weight with the larger zoom lenses and the flash attached. It is quite heavy to say the least, but then that's why you have a strap to give your arms and wrists a break, right?
Solid build, solid feel and superb results (anything less is MY fault!) give this a 10/10 for me!!