ID: B000GAAP8Q-R1NKXRONJN79TX-A3SCPTPTIKJZSG
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-nano-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A3SCPTPTIKJZSG
ReviewerName: rutabaga "optimistic cynic"
Date: December 22, 2006
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: A Nearly Perfect MP3 Player
Content:
After getting a year of good and hard use out of my 1st generation 4gb iPod Nano, the hold key snapped. Since it was out of warranty, Apple said that it would cost $180 to fix. Forget it. At that price, I might as well get the new one. So I did, and as of now I have a fantastic impression. I'll go through all of it step by step, so prepare yourselves.
1: The case. Though relatively minor, the case that the Nano comes in, as well as what's included with it, has been slimmed down to the bare essentials, which I actually prefer. The small plastic case uses very few materials, which is good for mother nature, and has no CD that you need to install before using it, which is good for your patience. There's also a few apple stickers, which I promptly got rid of as well as the new Apple headphones, a bare-bones manual, a warranty card and an adapter for a dock. One minor thing, the case can be a little frustrating to open, though it's worth it, believe me. 
2: iTunes/connectivity with your computer. As with all iPods, this thing has nigh on perfect harmony with iTunes. I've got around 2 gigabytes worth of music, and it was all transferred and ready to play within 7 minutes. Unless you balance the Nano on the cord just so or get a dock, it's going to be lying on your desk, so make sure not to have any dust on it. As with the other iPods, the Nano uses the proprietary connector, which is cool with me, with the slew of accesories that are available for it. Just don't lose the cable, since you'll lose all ways of charging and syncing it. Again, a small complaint here. The Nano isn't fully charged right out of the box; you have to charge it for around 45 minutes to get it 100% juiced. 
3: The differences. If you were to go through the pros and cons of the 1st generation and 2nd generation Nano, 2g would win hands down. It is a hair thinner and a hair taller, but the curved edges make it feel simply, well, Nano. Another very good addition is the use of color. With the previous generation, the lovely dark color ended as soon as you flipped it over. Not so with this sucker. The whole thing is clad in anodized alumium, which happens to be nigh on scratchproof and extremely resistant to fingerprints. The bad part about that is that the case is seamless, so anyone trying to open it up will have to go for the much more difficult top or bottom openings, which are still plastic. 
As for the differences with the guts of the Nano, they are small but noticeable. The vaunted click wheel is still here [and with good reason, it's the slickest and easiest control scheme in the portable world], along with the only other button on the thing, the hold key, which I hope proves less breakable than the one on the previous generation. The screen is noticeably brighter, easily the 40% claimed by Apple. There are also some handy new features on the inside: when you're scrolling quickly through songs, a letter will appear in semi-translucent text to make it easier to tell where you are. There's also a search function, and you can set a volume limit if you don't want to give yourself a headache. Other than that, things are pretty much the same.
Finally, the complaints. First of all, I dislike Apple to a very large extent as a company. They make decisions that would stop me from buying this iPod if I hadn't already made a substantial investment in the songs that I had purchased. For example, Apple makes it impossible to use the 1st generation Nano dock because they moved the connector port about 1mm to the left, for no apparent reason other than to get people to buy the dock, again. This'll also be a problem for any other docks/radio transmitters that have an enclosed connector, since those are bound to be designed to the first generation. 
Those complaints aside, I am well and truly happy. Apple truly has made a great product, and if they stop making these stupid money-making changes they will have no significant obstacles in retaining their title of Maker of the World's Best MP3 Players.