ID: B00076S36U-R3314JXNY1HRMG-A209QRVZ99UQDC
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Sengoku-HeatMate-Omni-Radiant-Portable-Kerosene
ReviewerID: A209QRVZ99UQDC
ReviewerName: Calamity Jane
Date: July 27, 2005
Helpful: 52 of 55
Rating: 5.0
Title: Some Flaws, but it does what it's meant to do. HEAT!
Content:
The Pros -- This thing delivers the heat! I live in a 980 sq. ft. mobile home with an open living room and kitchen. Even during the coldest months this unit kept me warm during power failures. The heat even traveled to the farthest bedroom, not heating it to the fullest, but keeping away the chill. It runs silently.
The Cons -It does not run for the 12 hours, as stated on the outer carton. I suppose if you heated a very small bathroom it would regulate itself to the full 12 hours. I have to refill the tank every four hours. Since the unit is rather heavy and bulky it's difficult to carry it outside for refueling. It's even heavier on the return trip because of the full tank of kerosene. The carrying handle doesn't feel secure enough to haul that weight.
Unless you run the tank completely dry, this unit flares up and sends a cloud of black smoke into the room during shutdown. A kerosene-stink will linger for half an hour. It has to be taken apart and cleaned every few days to remove the carbon build-up on the wick. I have not yet been successful at removing all that carbon.
A kerosene heater is not for wimps or for those who won't follow safety instructions. It can be dangerous.
I wouldn't recommend this product for someone looking to run it all winter long to cut down on their heating bill.
I would, however, recommend it for someone wishing to have an optional heating source available during emergencies. If the only choices are to freeze or find another heating source, this will unit will do the job well.
I believe the Cons (as stated) are typical of all portable kerosene heaters, so I will not fault this unit in those areas. With the exception of the misleading  "runs for up to 12 hours", this unit does what it's supposed to do. That's why I give it five stars.