ID: B00008UI0R-R1BHTEMZQDF7UU-A36WTXJBYS3DB6
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A36WTXJBYS3DB6
ReviewerName: N. B. Kennedy
Date: February 10, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 3.0
Title: Great power, some problems
Content:
It's hard for me to rate the performance of this vacuum cleaner, as I bought it to replace a 60-year-old Electrolux canister. Even a broom would do a better job!
Sure enough, on the first pass I was emptying the container after every room. It picked up years of gunk. I'm loving my clean carpets. 
This is the first time I comparison-shopped for an item entirely online, relying solely on Amazon reviews. I think I made a good choice, but I was aware of the downsides of this machine and decided I could live with them. 
Here are the cons: 
* It is a dusty, dusty machine. It's not for anyone with allergies or asthma. Emptying the container is a dirty job and every part of the machine is covered in dust. (But I will do anything to avoid the hassle of buying bags. I'd just stop vacuuming when I ran out, I know it.) I wear a dust mask when emptying. 
* It is awkward. The hose is stiff and gets tangled. I have to pull it out and uncoil it periodically. Both the cord and hose are too short.
* It is too wide for stairs. At least the Electrolux was narrow enough to rest on a stair while I vacuumed the ones above and below it. You have to hoist this machine up and hold it while you vacuum the middle steps. But I needed a canister as I vacuum on two levels and didn't want to haul an upright up and down steps.
* The controls are touchy. There's an electrical plug where the wand disconnects from the handle to change attachments. If it's not entirely plugged in, the power flickers. Also, I tend to hit the off switch unintentionally while vacuuming because the off switch is right where your thumb is. 
* The parts are finicky. The first time I used it, the stair/furniture attachment stopped working. A piece of lint had wedged under the belt. I had to take it apart and pick out the lint with tweezers. 
As I say, I have no other experience with vacuums. I'm learning to live with this one, but it isn't a "plug and play" proposition. You have to get good at troubleshooting and learn to baby the machine. But I do love having clean carpets!