ID: B00005IBX9-R2RED87VOFEJ7C-A3JI60E5QLUSQH
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1200-Central-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A3JI60E5QLUSQH
ReviewerName: "dvdandv"
Date: March 1, 2004
Helpful: 13 of 13
Rating: 5.0
Title: Sleek Design, Great Coffee
Content:
After doing a fair amount of research, I bought this coffee maker from Cuisinart. I almost allowed myself to be dissuaded by previous reviewers' complaints that the coffee wasn't hot enough, or that the reservoir was too small to accurately pour the water.After owning the machine for almost a month now, let me say, this is the BEST designed coffee maker I have ever used.The reservoir is plenty big enough to pour the coffee into, even at 4:00 in the morning, or juggling a 17 month old on one hip. The carafe is the ONLY carafe I have used that does not leak or drip when you pour, no matter how fast you attempt to pour. That kind of accuracy with the carafe makes it downright easy to pour the water (and hot coffee.)The numbers inside are easy enough to see, however you do have to be rather tall to see inside the reservoir. I solved this problem by measuring on the carafe prior to pouring. Is it a perfect measurement?? No, but it's close enough to make great coffee.It was easy to program, and easy to use (and I did NOT read the instructions -- I never do!!) The coffee is plenty hot enough for me, and I have the carafe temperature set to high. Also, I have the burner set to stay on for a full four hours, and the coffee doesn't taste bitter or old even if it has been sitting for several hours. Another great feature is the whole filter basket easily lifts out of the machine in order to allow you to dispose of your used filter and grounds easily and WITHOUT DRIPPING ANY COFFEE ON YOUR COUNTER OR FLOOR!!! (I love this feature -- no more running to the garbage with my hand cupped under the filter, hoping I am not going to make a mess!)The only drawback I see on the machine is it has an end of cycle signal. Now this in and of itself is NOT a drawback, in fact, I like the fact that it notifies me when my coffee is ready. The problem, is you can't turn it off, so when I have the machine programmed to produce my coffee at 4:15 am (yes, I really do get up that early) it is kind of loud in the quiet house -- fortunately both of my kids are sound sleepers, and my husband --well, let's just say the dead are easier to rouse. Anyway, it would be nice to be able to turn it off on occasion.Did I happen to mention how COOL this looks just sitting on your counter?I believe I have turned into a Cuisinart fanatic. Long may my machine last. I have finally created the perfect cup of coffee.