ID: B000H0IF2S-R1BKXVUMK8LOJY-A35UUQKA76R8QI
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-shuffle-Orange-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A35UUQKA76R8QI
ReviewerName: N. Harris "Rose Bud"
Date: July 31, 2007
Helpful: 1 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: It's nice and compact.
Content:
It works great.  I bought this specifically for running and working out.  I use a 30g Ipod for everything else.  The shuffle is perfectly compact and I downloaded only the songs I wanted for running/working out which is all I need and there's still plenty of space for more songs.
If you're looking for more, you'll need to buy a Nano or video Ipod.  Otherwise, this is a bare bones, simplistically styled, compact mp3 player and perfect for the person on the go who needs no fancy options--just play, pause, FF/RWD, shuffle, volume control and an on/off switch.  There are a couple other multi-function button options like pressing play/pause 3 times in non-shuffle mode and the playlist will restart from the first song.
Again, this is bare bones so you can't make a playlist.  If you can't live without playlists, then upgrade to an Ipod with more functions.
If you have big, manly hands, I'd recommend trying one of these out at your local electronics retailer first.  It is compact, so a test run might save you some frustration.
One drawback of this thing is that they only include a USB charger.  Typical Ipod makes you buy accessories it should include.  Anyways, this is only an issue if you won't have access to a PC when you travel. There's no wall outlet charger included so if you must have one, I'd recommend a DLO 008-7546 PowerBug for the Shuffle 2G or any other if some other company manufactures them. [...].
--Update:  The wall-charger that I use for my Ipod video also works with the Ipod Shuffle.  So, no need to buy a PowerBug if you already have the Ipod wall-charger.  You can plug the USB-plug included with the Shuffle into the Ipod wall-charger and it charges fine.
 
If you're a runner or fitness guru, I'd also recommend the DLO 008-1619 Action Jacket for the Shuffle 2G.  It was the hands free solution I needed.