ID: B000N22JPE-R1E8GU4M2GEP4J-A3BNE6TC41OUFF
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1100BK-12-Cup-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3BNE6TC41OUFF
ReviewerName: Amy H.
Date: January 15, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Beat expectations
Content:
After reading the reviews for this product I decided to try this machine.  I own multiple Cuisinart products and felt safe based on the comments made by others as well as most of my own experience with the brand - it was a good choice.
   I am sipping my first cup as I type this, it is the first machine I have owned (of many) that actually delivers a hot cup of coffee using the 1-4 cup setting.  This maker replaced a Cuisinart 4 cup maker with an uninsulated ?aluminum/steel? carafe which burned all coffee made in it if left for more than a few minutes after brewing stopped - no problems with that in this model, temp has remained consistent even after sitting for a while on the warming plate.
   Setting the clock was simple, consisting of holding the hour button until it flashes, scrolling through the hours until you find the correct one, doing the same with the minutes, then waiting a few seconds for it to set itself - very easy.
   Filling the unit with water is not difficult, does not seem better or worse than filling any other maker.  Any concerns about the water filter can be tempered by the cost of purchasing coffee from a specialty store. Through Amazon, you can buy a 2-pack for around $6.00 with a recommended replacement rate of 60 days or 60 pots (which can, of course, be stretched depending on water quality).  In comparison to what I have spent in the past buying lattes, etc., this is a savings and the quality of the brew means I don't miss the other.
   I do not often use timer settings or have coffee waiting for me as I wake up, but I will use some of the other functions and like the fact that the machine will indicate when it needs to be cleaned.  The controls are easy to use and I like being able to simply press a button to start brewing instead of a toggle switch that requires holding the machine with one hand while pressing the button with the other (not that I am lazy, it is just simpler with the button)
   I bought this machine in part because, though I am the only coffee drinker in our house, when friends or family visit, I like the option of being able to make larger pots.  I also liked the value and would buy another machine in the future regardless of whether it is on sale or not.  I am pleased with the purchase and would recommend it to others.