ID: B000I1ZWRW-R1MW7RRIV5MCD3-A342MS5RCZCFEH
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-10-1MP-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A342MS5RCZCFEH
ReviewerName: Joel Harris
Date: November 5, 2007
Helpful: 4 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Nice successor to the original Digital Rebel!
Content:
I got this camera as a replacement for my first-gen Digital Rebel, which I love(d). I felt I had to replace it because a small plastic piece inside broke that ultimately knocked out the autofocus. Design flaw, if you ask me, and one that I really hope this new model doesn't share. Anyway, to the new camera--I definitely like the feel overall, although it is certainly different than the original (smaller). It seems a bit speedier, particularly from powering up to first picture, and I really like the shutter sound, which sounds very high-end--or at least more so than the original. 
The picture quality is excellent, and is equal to or better than the original except for a very tiny bit of underexposure, which I've come to believe is intended by Canon to help prevent excessive blown-out highlights. I do a fair amount of post-processing, so that doesn't bother me. I can always compensate a bit in dark scenes when shooting, if necessary.
I am having a bit of trouble adjusting to the new interface, paricularly ISO adjustment. Previously, I would select the ISO button to change the ISO, make the change with the main dial, and then press the ISO button again to get out of that mode. The XTi behaves differently, in that if I do that same series of actions, I end up changing the ISO to a different setting than I want, because pressing the ISO button to "get out of that mode" no longer does that. When in that mode, that button acts as an arrow button, and changes the setting. So anyway, that's just something I going to have to adjust to.
It is nice that the black body matches my lenses better than the original did, and the camera just looks and feels more professional, which is good. I wasn't quite ready to upgrade to this model, because it's not quite enough of an upgrade for me personally (I really woud like a full-frame model, with none of the 1.6x business), but because I use this camera for work, and because I have an investment in lenses, I felt compelled to. I just wish it wasn't because of the silly broken plastic pin issue. Planned obsolescence, indeed.