ID: B000CDHS7I-R32CRYUSYD377E-A9U3RJYCLF2DC
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Krups-FMF5-Programmable-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A9U3RJYCLF2DC
ReviewerName: John Wismar
Date: November 25, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Not flawless, but works fine
Content:
Buying a coffee maker is not straightforward.  I read a ton of reviews of many different models when our older coffee maker (a now-discontinued Starbucks Barista model) finally died.  I did not see a single coffee maker that had uniformly positive reviews, and I also didn't find one that had every feature we were looking for.  We decided to give this one a shot; all of the negative reviews made us pretty skeptical, but so far it has been working well for us.
We were looking for a coffee maker that (in no particular order) A) used a thermal carafe instead of a hot plate, B) had a removeable reservoir for convenient filling, C) made good coffee, D) wasn't extremely expensive, E) was a solid, well made device with positive customer reviews.
How does this coffee maker rate on those criteria?
A) Thermal carafe: check.
B) Removable reservoir: missing.  We have to bring a pitcher over and fill the reservoir.  This is inconvenient, and we, like others, have encountered the issue where we can get air bubbles in the fill-level indicator.  I can usually tap these out during the next fill cycle, but it's annoying.  This has happened 3 times in the 2 months we've had it.  To be fair, almost no other model of coffee maker we looked at in this price range had a removable reservoir, either.
C) Makes good coffee: check.  We had read a comparison review in Cook's Illustrated that indicated that this coffee maker was one of the better ones they tested in terms of coffee quality.  That prompted us to look at this model more closely, and we've been happy with the coffee it produces, even when brewing only half a pot.
D) Not extremely expensive: not too bad.  This is subjective, of course.  It's a good bit more expensive than the $20 Mr. Coffee, but less than many others.  We would have liked to spend a bit less, but weren't horrified.
E) Solid build: mixed.  As I indicated, we've seen a couple of the problems others have mentioned, but nothing major. We haven't had any leaks, for example.   
(One other issue: the "Cycle Completed" beep is the most annoying beep of any device we own.  Holy moly, is it awful.  Fortunately, you can turn it off; save your users manual.)
So, over all, after a couple of months of daily use, I'd say we have been fairly pleased with it.  It's not flawless, but it hasn't caused us any major problems.  I hope by the time we're buying another one that there will be models out that have uniformly positive reviews, but in the meantime, we're happy with this one.