ID: B00006C7HJ-R3MV5W5DFFFQNG-A2S37IWXMFJQVU
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Vornado-VH2-Vortex-Heater
ReviewerID: A2S37IWXMFJQVU
ReviewerName: A. Hennessey "Art"
Date: December 10, 2008
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 2.0
Title: Not For Us
Content:
I purchased the Vornado VH2 Heater, but I returned it to the store after a few days. 
My wife and I owned a Lasko Ceramic Element 30" Pedestal heater for years, but this season it finally died. We chose the Vornado VH2 Vortex heater after reading some of the positive reviews.    
We live in the Northeast, have kind of a drafty apartment and we try to keep the heat low or off to save energy.  The space heater goes into whatever room we are in and we use it to heat that room while we are there.   Or we turn it on in the bedroom in the morning while we get ready for the day.
After a few days, it was clear that the Vornado VH2 was not going to cut it.  The unit blows heat, but it is very tepid compared to our other heater.  
We did notice that the Vornado VH2 (as many positive reviews here have mentioned) gives a very ambient warmth - meaning that it seems to spread the heat about the room very evenly. However, be warned, it takes a loooong time for it to even raise the temperature a little bit.
I am confident in saying that this is NOT the heater for certain uses.  For instance, if you have a home office and you like to use a heater to aim warmth  your workstation area, this would not do the trick. Also, it isn't the heater for a fast warm-up. The Vornado VH2's big failure was in our morning routine.  Usually, during the winter, we wake up, put on the heater, go into the bathroom to get ready and when return to the bedroom the heater has it nice and toasty.  Well, the first morning using the Vornado was a shock - it felt as if nothing had changed in the room.
After a couple of days, I went out and bought another Lasko heater, (same model as we had before,) brought it home and did a side by side comparison.  NO CONTEST.  I immediately boxed up the Vornado and returned it. 
*****On a safety note: The plug for the Vornado VH2 seemed to not sit well in the outlet.  When I would go to unplug it after using it, I would notice that the plug would kind of be hanging down, just a little, out of the outlet.  This doesn't seem to be the case with our new heater, or our old one.