ID: B000AAQR3E-R3EIAM7LLIGZJK-A5CEUD94YF8KR
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-Sirius-Canister-Cleaner-Electric
ReviewerID: A5CEUD94YF8KR
ReviewerName: Misty S. Carr
Date: February 1, 2008
Helpful: 70 of 70
Rating: 5.0
Title: The Very Best Vacuum I have ever used
Content:
When i bought this vacuum I relied heavily on the reviews people wrote. I researched for days online, speaking to vacuum salespeople and service people.  Everyone who is in the vacuum industry has said that this is the most reliable machine there is. I suggest calling a few repairmen in your area and see what they have to say.  The guy I talked to said it is his favorite vacuum and rarely has to repair one.  I purchased through witbecks who offered free shipping, and an extended 10 yr. motor warranty.  I can say they have superior service.
I would not even worry about the price tag.  Keep in mind that this isn't a disposable vacuum you pick up at walmart!!! this is not a hoover or a dirt devil, this is a miele, one of the most trusted brands in Europe (do the research)
You will not be let down with any model, I chose this for my hardwood and tile flooring.  It has surpassed my expectations of what a $400 vacuum can do.  It literally sucked the splinters off the exposed edges of my hardwood flooring, and when combined with the crevice tool sucked gravel from BENEATH my door frame.  A place cleaned earlier with a DeWalt Shop Vac.
I advise anyone to buy this vacuum, but if you are unconvinced, check out the specifications, it has 141 CFM. (suction)....my old sears vacuum has 40.  And a central vacuum system that is expensive and tedious to install has only 112.  Seriously, this thing is wonderful!!! I have never been in love with a vacuum until now.  Everything you hear about these Miele's is true.  They are the best machines out there and they are very quiet!! I can vacuum everything!  I even used it on my computer keyboard with no problem ( and I didn't buy the special kit)  the bags and filters cost a little bit, but are worth it.  A Hepa lasts a year for $50.  The bags are 5 for 15 and come with two filters as well.  Money well spent.  And the vacuum will last till the kids are off to college.
A wonderful product at any price.  Try to add up what it would cost to replace your hoover every 3 years and then decide if this vacuum really costs too much...I think it is worth every penny!
FYI NOTE: the different "colors" of models, actually is only an indication of the things it comes with.  All models have the same motor, from what I have been told, the prices vary with the accessories, the type of filter and the power wand, or non-powered wand and whether or not you have a dial to turn on the machine or a button, or if you have a button on the machine AND the wand, etc.
I chose this one because I liked the color better than the carina and it came with hepa.  The total would likely be the same if you spoke with a vacuum rep. and specifically defined which items you must have and which you can live without.  Again, the quality of the $1,000 model and the $400 model are the same.  Same motor, same suction, same quality.  Different color, different switches, different tools. That is the difference! (hope it helps!)