ID: B000V5P90K-R1GSH8AWXJA24M-A3J310B3O47FHW
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-40D-10-1MP-Digital-Body
ReviewerID: A3J310B3O47FHW
ReviewerName: P. Wiklanski "reading rider"
Date: March 7, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: The one to buy!
Content:
Digital SLRs have become all the rage and there are seemingly new (and questionably improved) examples coming out seemingly everyday. Through all of the choices the same principles of camera buying still hold true. Buy the best camera that you can afford that gives you the finest images that you will be proud of.
I come from a long history of cameras; I got my start using all manual Olympus OM-1s and Bronica ETRSi (medium format) cameras before finally making a jump to autofocus. With that move I adopted the Canon EOS system based on the quality of its lenses and the stellar eye focusing system.  Fast forward into an increasing digital age and I found myself using digital point and shoots far more than I had expected until finally I decided to add a digital SLR to my collection (I still shoot the manual cameras for more artistic control).
While looking it was clear that I didn't want to give up my Canon lens collection so that pretty much narrowed my choice, not to mention that the great reputation for the Digic sensor. Initially I looked at the Rebel XSi, EOS 40D and 50D, figuring that in this spectrum I would find the best choice. The reviews on all 3 cameras are very positive, deservingly so.  The Rebel is a great camera however its two biggest drawbacks are its plastic body which just doesn't feel up to the rigors of a aggressive use, it also does feel a little, well, plasticky. The next factor, and the deciding one at that is its Lilliputian dimensions. It's frankly, just too small. I've talked to a number of camera sales people who have all agreed that they find that it's a great camera for women or men with small hands. While it bills its size as an asset for travelling and its lightness a bonus for carrying, I find that it's just too small to hold well.
The 50D, also a fine camera is just that little bit out of the price range for me. Not to mention, that from published reviews, the differences are not necessarily strong enough to warrant the additional price.
Which brought me to the 40D, I love the layout of the camera, it fits my hands like me other EOS bodies. I appreciate its size, its sense of "heft" and the texture of its body. Its grippy without being sticky, with its coated metal chassis it inspires confidence that it will not be prone to damage or cracks. It simply feels like a quality, professional tool, which is what I want.
The included lens produces great results; the images are crisp and wonderfully accurate in terms of color and contrast. I don't generally rely on the screen on the back but it too offers a great preview. In terms of options and controls, it offers anything that you could wish for. I have read people that wish for a tighter spot meter though I am not bothered by its size, I use Photoshop to micro adjust exposure anyway.
This is a great camera; it will do all that you ask of it. The images are great, its build quality fantastic and its battery life stellar. If you have existing Canon lens you'll be able to continue to use them, if not, well then you're in for a treat as Canon optics are great. Each of Canon's SLRs cater seemingly cater to a particular audience, though I feel like those lines are blurring. If you seek a near professional caliber camera with plenty of expansion options that is capable of producing your best images then this may well be the camera for you. If you are on the fence between it and the XSi, compare the way both feel in your hands, decide which you prefer. If you are looking at the 50D, ask yourself if you are really going to make use of the additional features or whether you'd like to invest the price difference in a lens.
For my money the 40D is a fantastic deal that is more than capable of continuing to expand my personal photographic creativity, let it do the same for you.