ID: B0000C8VEK-R3TDTC8I8C65CG-A1OW7OA63GGVB2
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-Camera-18-55mm
ReviewerID: A1OW7OA63GGVB2
ReviewerName: Kelly Theodor
Date: November 30, 2003
Helpful: 21 of 23
Rating: 5.0
Title: I Love the Rebel!
Content:
I had purchased the EOS Rebel Ti film camera one year ago and LOVED it. Everyone asked if it was digital and I said, "no, digital isn't up to my standards yet." Well, now it is! When I saw the Rebel Digital 6.3 megapixel I just *knew* the time had come to go digital. I am so happy with it! I bought it while on vacation this past week so I got to use it for vacation pictures. I bought a 128 MB memory card to go with it (it doesn't come with any memory card at all) and at the "Large/Fine" setting was able to take about 48 pictures before running out of room. At smaller settings I'd have gotten many more pictures out of the 128. But the camera comes with a cable and software to connect seamlessly with your computer, so since I brought my laptop along I was able to download my pictures and re-use the card. By trip's end I did buy a 512 MB card, but only in preparation for my trip to London next month, because I don't want to have to lug my laptop on my walks around the city. I also experimented with switching the lens from my Rebel Film camera to my new Rebel Digital. The digital Rebel comes with an 18-55mm, while the film Rebel comes with a 28-90mm lens.The lens from the film Rebel fit just fine on the digital Rebel, but I was unable to switch the other way and put the 18-55 on my film Rebel. Both lenses worked great on the digital. The battery that the Rebel Digital uses is the same battery I use on my Canon ZR45 MC mini Digital Video Camcorder. I would say it lasted 3-4 days of moderate use on my Rebel, which is much better than the 3 hours I get from it on the camcorder. Many of the controls on the digital Rebel are the same as on the film Rebel, which is to say, EASY and intuitive. What I like best about the Rebel is that it grows with you: you can use the auto controls to basically "point and shoot", or you can use the manual controls when you know what you're doing. The auto controls cover most circumstances you'll ever need: action, night, closeup, landscape, portrait, no flash, or fully automatic. The manual side gives you auto depth of field, aperture control, shutter speed control, exposure control, or fully manual. I've been extremely happy with the auto controls. Some day I'll graduate over to the manual side and try to dredge up from my memory what I learned 20 years ago in school. What I love about digital is that you can instantly critique your photos and delete the ones that don't turn out as well as you'd thought. But what sold me on going digital at this point is that with the 6.3MP the quality is such that I can enlarge my photos to poster size without losing quality. You just don't have that in a 35 mm camera except under the most optimum conditions. I wanted the flexibility to be able to take pictures under all lighting conditions and be able to use the ones that turn out great in any way I want. I love taking night shots and these cameras handle them BEAUTIFULLY. I'm expecting to be able to make posters and frame and sell them.I haven't yet printed out my pictures but they look absolutely fantastic on screen. I'm excited again about my photographic skills. This camera is everything I'd hoped a digital camera would be. It's also a very hot item right now so get yours when you can!If you purchase, I recommend getting a UV lens right away, as well as a memory stick.