ID: B000TQEDE4-R3SAALB9WBYFT9-AAU5Y84K064CN
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1150BK-Programmable-Thermal-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: AAU5Y84K064CN
ReviewerName: Julia Aley
Date: February 21, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best coffee pot ever :)
Content:
Yes, I stole a little from the Simpsons, but this really is a great coffee maker for us. My girlfriend drinks coffee like a fiend all day and into the night (she has built up a very high tolerance) so she doesn't mind if it's cold. Cold coffee, unless blended with ice and chocolate, makes my toes curl. And we all know letting a pot of coffee sit on a hot burner all day is also the path to truly heinous coffee.
This pot keeps coffee literally steaming hot for hours on end! For those who couldn't get the temperature above tepid, sounds like you got a lemon and isn't reflective of how this unit normally works.
The lid is a bit tricky first thing in the morning before I've had my first cup, but most things are a bit tricky before my first cup of coffee.
We haven't had any great overflows as reported by other users - so far. I haven't used the programmable setting yet because as soon as I set the pot up for the morning my girlfriend decides she needs a pot for the night! *sigh*
Pouring the water into the reservoir from the insulated carafe is slow and takes two fills, otherwise totally upending the carafe results in water in unpleasant places.
It brews a pot in under 10 minutes so is great even on mornings I'm running late. 
The beep - unless you are sleeping in the same room with it really isn't that bad. 
We use the same amount of coffee as with our old pot and it's plenty strong.
The gold filter does take a little extra rinsing versus my old flat-bottomed one - the plastic across the bottom impedes the water flow a bit and you have to flip and swish it some to get all the old grounds out. 
Overall very happy with the machine. My biggest complaint today is I see that it's now $10 cheaper than when I bought it three weeks ago! Oh well :)