ID: B000FFRJWC-R5BCSA6G1XG3W-A30L4JU32SLWLV
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Eureka-Uno-Bagless-Upright-2998AZ
ReviewerID: A30L4JU32SLWLV
ReviewerName: Jane in Atlanta
Date: March 6, 2007
Helpful: 
Rating: 3.0
Title: Beware the flying dust when you empty the cannister
Content:
We have used the Eureka Uno for over three months in our home. We use it on our new carpet, on solid wood floors and on tile floors. The vac is a heavy machine weighing 16 lbs on our bathroom scale. The handle feels good in my hand. . The flexible tube takes a good yank to dislodge it for use with the extensive tubes and the brush. And several times after we have shoved it back into the machine, the flex tube popped out spewing the vacuum dust. But, if you really jam the flex tube into the machine, it stays. Then, of course, you really have to yank and almost muscle it out to use for the brush. The dust canister is okay and you can see when it needs to be emptied. But when you do empty it, you have to be super careful not to accidentally drop it, otherwise you will have dust and such all over the place. Also, when the vacuum is flattened to reach under the coffee tables, the vacuumed dust actually gets trapped above the dust canister and you have to pull out the dust. The dust in the canister accumulates like tornado shaped cone. Besides its HEPA filter, there is sponge type of filter that needs to be clean frequently---this may be due to the fuzzing of our new carpet. Regardless, to clean this you have to rub off the dust into the trash can and then rinse it out under running water. I just "squeeze dry" that filter before re-using. Another caution--since you are literally pouring dust into the trash can, instead of having it trapped in a bag, when we quickly open the trash can (large wood kitchen trash can), the dust shoots out from the air current. We have found that after we vacuum, we either have to immediately empty the trash can or place a damp paper towel on top of the dust to keep it settled. We are not pleased with this machine. We do like to see the canister fill as a cue to empty it. And that is the best thing about it.   It did well on the wood floors and on the tile.