ID: B000S5ZUH0-R1HWAMFIPF57H6-A2TLDOVBCGKCCU
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-Wi-Fi-Portable-Media-Player
ReviewerID: A2TLDOVBCGKCCU
ReviewerName: William McCurdy
Date: October 18, 2007
Helpful: 22 of 22
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great Media Player!  Make your Friends Jealous!
Content:
This is my second Archos. I replaced my old 550 with the 605 and I am quite happy with the upgrade!  
Bad:
Volume is low - With the headphone supplied the volume was very low.  I replaced the headphones with a pair of in ear Sony's and now I don't have an issue.  I thought the supplied headphones were uncomfortable anyways.
USB Charging ONLY (out of the box) - There are NO USB plugs on the unit.  The only way to charge the unit is via the supplied USB cable.  You will have to buy one of the Archos adapters to charge the unit via a wall adapter.  I bought the Mini Dock.  It has Power (international plug included btw), USB, and video out.
Extra $$$ for Plug In's - Some of the features that are loaded on the 605 are not available unless you pay an additional fee, like the web browser.  The web browser costs $30.  Kind of annoying if you did not know that going in.  Once you buy the plug-in, you get a code that you type in to the 605 to unlock it.
Good:
WiFi - Very easy to connect!  It doesn't seem to have the strongest antenna I've ever seen but it works just fine.
Web Browsing - The Opera browsers is great!  Plays streaming video and audio files, like YouTube or any flash based sites very well.  You just have to be a little patient some times when clicking links, I don't think it has a ton of RAM, so it can lock up if you don't let the pages load all the way.
HUGE Screen - I just flew to Italy and watched four episodes of Band of Brothers in wide screen.  Looked and sounded amazing.
Play Music while Browsing or Looking at Pictures - Great feature!  You can leave the music player and go to the web or your photo albums with out stopping the music.  Great for slide shows.
I am quite happy with the 605!  Highly recommend it!