ID: B0001LFRIS-R3L0J2TFS2B31I-ANNP11LRD7I8B
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: D70-Digital-Camera-Body-Only
ReviewerID: ANNP11LRD7I8B
ReviewerName: David E. Battaglia
Date: April 20, 2004
Helpful: 17 of 17
Rating: 5.0
Title: The affordable digital SLR is here!
Content:
Simply put, the Nikon D70 is the finest camera I have ever used.  As an amateur photographer I have owned a variety of Nikon SLRs during the age of film photography.  That is until the digital bug hit me with the introduction of the Olympus C2020 (a superb camera in its own right).  I have anxiously awaited the day when I could return to the SLR and do it digitally.  The D70 has made my day!  This camera is incredibly easy to use and intuitive right out of the box.  You can easily operate exposure controls, flash, and etc. without going through menus.  All the settings can be seen in the viewfinder and the control dials are in the right places so you don't have to take your eye off the subject.  It felt like coming home again to use an SLR, shoot through a viewfinder, and quickly and easily adjust exposures.  Since there is no shutter-lag with this camera, and image writing to the card is fast, you don't have to anticipate your shots.  Image quality is phenomenal and the 6 megapixel count assures you of excellent "darkroom" control.  There are so many image capture options available in its menu that it pays to test the camera for settings that satisfy your needs (e.g. regulating sharpness, contrast, and tonal distributions).  But even the default automatic settings provide photographs that can be beautifully printed right out-of-the-box.  The 18-70mm DX lense that comes with the kit (equivalent to 27-105mm for 35mm film) is a great buy and delivers excellent image quality.  I only wish its filter size (67mm) matched any of the filters that I had acquired for my old lenses.  For the serious amateur who wants the level of control and image quality that only an SLR can provide, the Nikon D70 is definitely it.  The affordable digital SLR has arrived!  Sorry, Kodak, the era of film photography has truly come to an end.