ID: B000MLG9K2-RH3F0RRSHDSP-A48UEJXBD4VQA
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-55mm-Zoom-Nikkor
ReviewerID: A48UEJXBD4VQA
ReviewerName: S. Reddy "Gadget Aware"
Date: December 12, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: I love the way it feels and the pictures it allows me to take
Content:
This is my first DSLR and I have been using it extensively for the last 9 months. My last camera was a point-and-shoot Canon, which I also liked, but I realized that I tweaked the manual controls as much as I could with a p&s. I debated between the D80 and the D40. The only real difference for me was the feel of it in my hands--I appreciated the weight and bulk. I also liked that it had an internal autofocus lens drive, in order to drive some older lenses that would otherwise become manual. While not a totally bad thing, the D40 lacked this feature. I've traveled with my camera to Tokyo, India, a few cities in the US and around my neighborhood. Perhaps the fact that I love to frame a shot and look for opportunities wherever I go, my D80 simply lets me take the photograph. It is just a tool that, upon learning some basics, moves out of the way and lets me express myself.
Some technical details: the battery lasts a long time; perhaps 250-400 shots. I bought a second battery, but unless you use the LCD after every shot, you rarely need to change out batteries often. You can get all of your necessary information via a low-power LCD on top of the camera or through the viewfinder. Low light shooting is generally good, as long as you stay under 1000 ISO. 1600 ISO gets a bit grainy, but is decent enough for prints.
The one accessory I recommend is a Nikon 50mm f/1.8D AF Nikkor Lens. It is by far the best value in a light, fast portraiture and all-around lens you can get. It's about $100 or so. No need to think about it.
Since the D90 is out the D80 should be super cheap (by DSLR standards). And it doesn't make this camera any less of a fine photographic tool. Remember, you are the artist.