ID: B000HBAHNW-R3SULLWA1A5LFR-A33KPXOAX64KS8
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-S5281-Callisto-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A33KPXOAX64KS8
ReviewerName: C. Gosuico
Date: October 25, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best Vacuum Ever
Content:
I own a dog day care and bed & breakfast. With the amount of dogs (we're averaging about 20 a day) that are in and out every day, and the large amount of hard surfaces (laminate flooring & sealed concrete floors) and soft surfaces, we needed a vacuum that would do the job with one pass and be easy to use. We are now 1 year into using this machine. We use it on a daily basis. It's light so it makes it quick to DAILY vacuum 2000 sq. feet of 2 levels including the numerous couches, antique oriental rugs, FLOR tiles, dog beds, and the interior of our LR3 clean of dog fur and whatever the runts have tracked in from their off-leash outings at the local parks. I vacuum up so much stuff that I have to put in a new bag every week. This machine just chugs sucking up whatever is in its path and contains it. Light enough to make stair work not a big deal. The suction adjustment is great for fabrics to prevent the fabric (like duvet covers, since we have dogs who like hanging out on beds) from being sucked rather than the fur. Our maid who uses this vacuum to clean our 1000 sq. ft. personal living space raves about how well this works. Trust me, she's used to using many vacuums. After using the Miele, she recommends it to her clients looking for a new vacuum. Yes, it's expensive. But it's not a disposable vacuum which I've had many of. This is an appliance. The only vacuum that we still have and has lasted is a Kirby, but it's just so heavy to use as much as we use the Miele. The product is incredibly well thought out and engineered down to the hinged mechanism on the cloth vacuum bags to prevent its contents from leaking out. Because it was so expensive, I looked for 0% financing which we found at Witbeck Vacuums. If you're on a the fence on this, you won't regret this purchase.
I did compare this to the dog & cat model, but decided on this one because of HEPA. In addition to this, I got the car clean kit which was a wise purchase as it has the tools to thoroughly clean the automobile thoroughly free of fur and sand.