ID: B000WGLMRW-R2RXYQPC6SLNA2-A3UC3YT2E65LZO
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Hamilton-Beach-HDC500B-Coffee-Brewer
ReviewerID: A3UC3YT2E65LZO
ReviewerName: R. Dowling
Date: November 11, 2008
Helpful: 23 of 23
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great little coffeemaker
Content:
My old 4-cup Mr. Coffee was a decent little coffeemaker and it lasted for about three years before it started to give me trouble. Technically it still works but the coffee it brews is only warm, not hot.  So I decided it was time for a new machine.  
I did a lot of research, and the fact of the matter is that there just aren't many good quality 4-cup coffeemakers on the market.  I researched the models from Mr. Coffee, Cuisinart, and Black & Decker, and none of them got particularly good reviews.  I went to local stores and played with the display models and all of them felt very light, flimsy, and cheap.  Even the $40 Cuisinart was featherweight and felt like it would fall apart at any moment.
I've always had good luck with Hamilton Beach products, so when I found this one online, I had a good feeling about it.  I did some more research and found that this particular model is used in hotels all over the country.  That seemed like a good sign.  Commercial grade products are usually built to a higher standard than consumer grade stuff.
So I ordered it, and sure enough, it's a major step above the 4-cup machines made by the other manufacturers.  Even though it's made mostly of plastic, it is heavy and stable and definitely won't tip over easily. The power cord is heavy grade and has a 3-prong plug.  The on/off switch has a nice spring action and seems durable.
Due to the fact that these are made for hotel rooms, there are picture-based instructions in white ink on top of the coffeemaker.  If you are very concerned about appearances, this might bother you.  It doesn't bother me.  The #1 thing I'm concerned about is how the coffee tastes... and with that in mind...
It tastes great!  It's very hot, much hotter than my old Mr. Coffee.  But the water isn't TOO hot, so you don't need to worry about it making the coffee bitter and over-extracted.
I only have two complaints, and they are relatively minor: when you're finished brewing coffee and you open the basket holder to remove the grounds and filter, a small amount of water falls out and splashes onto the warming plate and onto the counter.  It's not a huge amount of water -- maybe a teaspoon -- but it does do this every time I brew coffee.  Just something to be aware of; have a paper towel handy and it's not a problem. My other complaint is that there is no way of knowing how much water is in the reservoir. Usually they have a little window or some other indicator, but this unit doesn't have either. Mildly annoying, but not a huge issue and obviously doesn't affect the coffee itself.
All in all, I'm very pleased with this coffeemaker and would recommend it to anyone who is searching for a good quality 4-cup machine.