ID: B0001A99MO-R1OB5G40GC5B6G-A23GFTVIETX7DS
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-M9160LL-Silver-MODEL
ReviewerID: A23GFTVIETX7DS
ReviewerName: Debbie Lee Wesselmann
Date: January 1, 2005
Helpful: 23 of 26
Rating: 5.0
Title: For those who don't need the storage
Content:
The iPod mini works exactly as its larger capacity cousins, the 20GB and 40GB models, do.  With it sensitive click wheel, navigation through the music is effortless and intuitive.  Downloading from iTunes is automatic upon plugging it in, although the user can manually select tunes, especially useful if your music library exceeds the memory capacity of the iPod.  The iPod tutorial CD explains many of the features not discussed in the instruction book. 
The iPod mini does have its differences, most obviously its size and memory.  It is about half as thick as the 20 GB model, with a much smaller face.  Although not as tiny as many conventional MP3 players, it slips easily into a pocket.  The case is brushed colored metal, which hides fingerprints and scratches much better than the shiny backed iPod.  It comes packed with the same ear bugs, Fire Wire and USB 2.0 cables, and home charger as the larger models do.
Users will need either Mac OS X 10.1.5 or later OR Windows XP OR Windows 2000 with Service Pack 4.  Your computer needs either a high-powered USB 2.0 port or a six-prong Fire Wire port.  (PC users can purchase a card to upgrade to the correct USB version.)  Computers need to run at 500 MHZ or faster.  ITunes is the only music software that works with the iPod, although music can be transferred to the program using CD's, either professionally or home burned.
The biggest drawback to the iPod mini is its small memory capacity, only 4 GB versus the 20 GB of the next higher priced model.  If you are considering buying a mini, you should decide whether the cool colors and tiny size are worth the limited memory.  
The iPod technology is first-rate, with great sound, a multitude of features, and smooth integration with iTunes software.  Whether you buy this mini version or one of the larger ones, you won't regret it.