ID: B00005IBX9-RX0LJ1WMOYA1H-A250AXLRBVYKB4
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1200-Central-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A250AXLRBVYKB4
ReviewerName: Nathan Beauchamp "Dakotad555"
Date: February 11, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best cup of coffee you can make at home without a french press
Content:
This is easily the best coffee maker I've ever owned. I've used it for over 4 years and love it. It consistently brews a wonderful cup of coffee easily and efficiently. The settings are easy to use, the carafe is well designed, and the maker itself is stylish and matches my other stainless appliances. 
The gold filter that comes with the maker is very fine and can by itself keep 95% of all grounds out of your coffee. However we also use a fiber filter to increase that percentage to 100%  
The heat plate is excellent and keeps the coffee at a temperature of your choice. The heating sensor seems better than in any other brewer I've used as it keeps the coffee at the perfect temperature and never burns it. 
There are a few oddities to this model: 
1. The water reservoir is on the back side of the maker and is not as easy to access as some makers, especially if you keep your coffee brewer under your counter like I do. 
2. There is no external water fill indicator. Instead, there is a stair-stepped marker inside the reservoir itself. This works better than an exterior float marker because it is more accurate. However it is harder to see the markings for 2, 4, and 6 since they are deep in the reservoir. 
3. After a couple years of use the lid started not closing flush. I later realized this was caused by the accumulation of detritus in the hinge. I cleaned this thoroughly and now the lid closes, but it it still is not flush and I have no idea why. 
Aside from these relatively minor complaints (90% of what I want in a coffee maker is the ability to make excellent coffee, and this brewer does that exceptionally well!) I am very pleased with this brewer and would heartily recommend it to anyone.