ID: B000EPHPPE-R1GEU5C2LRGIJS-A16N7OZY0RWUJ3
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Video-White-MA448LL-Generation
ReviewerID: A16N7OZY0RWUJ3
ReviewerName: J. F. Herlocker Jr.
Date: October 18, 2006
Helpful: 24 of 25
Rating: 5.0
Title: Good for music, video, and pictures
Content:
Most of the reviews have done a better job than I could about the details of the good and bad about the 80GB iPod, so I'll talk to the people like me: Mac owners with loads of pictures, a number of songs, and a few videos.
My primary purpose in getting the 80GB iPod was to take around my collection of photos from iPhoto for family gatherings and the like; also some of the short family videos I've done. (Obviously for this I also needed Apple's AV cable, not included, which handles video and stereo audio.) I agonized over the choice between the 60GB and 30GB models; when the new 80GB came out (for a lower price!) it seemed like a sign to go with the higher capacity.
Good choice. Within a week of getting the iPod I had filled it to over 60GB with files that I would have had to delete from my hard drive otherwise in the course of a video project; it makes an *excellent* spare drive in a pinch. And even after finishing the project and moving the files back to the computer, I have 32GB of photos, music, and video. So if you have to choose a size, go with 80GB -- it will be less space than you think sooner than you think.
Synching from iPhoto is as automatic and excellent as the synchs from iTunes. The iPod keeps track of how the photos are organized, making it easy to find groups and sort through them by date. Note, however, that if you are not organized in iPhoto, you won't have an easy time finding things on the iPod.
Video playback is excellent, both on the small screen and on the TV (we have SD, not HD -- I would not expect the HD screen to be kind to the 640x480 output). Slideshows are also very good, although I wish it were easier to customize the tunes that go with different sets of pictures. And now I have six years of photos (over 8,000 pictures) that fit into my pocket.
One thing I did not anticipate was need a remote control for the video and slideshows. So far I have not seen a product on the market that has not been slammed by reviewers.
Side note: using the AV cable, I was able to capture video and audio output from the iPod to my digital camcorder. This let me take a snippet from an iTunes music video and include it on a DVD video project I did for my nephew. Not the best quality, obviously, but the object wasn't to strip off the copy protection, I just wanted to get enough of the video to add some flavor to the other video I was creating.
I haven't given the battery a solid test yet (that will come with an overseas flight in a couple weeks), but while waiting in a store while my wife clothes shopped I went through a couple hours of video podcasts without the battery meter taking a noticeable hit.