ID: B0000AQIFZ-R2ORMXAYQXH7MC-A2EBE4ZWBV44KM
Category: MP3Players
Product: Rio-Karma-20-MP3-Player
ReviewerID: A2EBE4ZWBV44KM
ReviewerName: Nicholas A Pietraniec
Date: February 21, 2004
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Excellent portable music player
Content:
I've owned my Karma for about 3 months now and am very happy with it.  I've got about 15 gigs worth of MP3 and OGG files on it right now and they play flawlessly.  I recently helped a friend of mine set up a new 40 gig ipod and here are the differences I noticed...The physical interface:  The ipod's touchpad interface is cooler, I'll give it that, but both the Karma and the ipod work just fine from a functional standpoint.  From a merely aestetic standpoint, I'd have to go with the ipod.The formats:  The Rio plays ogg files, the ipod does not.  95% of music users probably don't care, but this was a selling point for me.  The Karma might not play apple's proprietarty format (or it might) but I don't really care about that.  They both play wma, but I don't use them.Dimensions:  The Karma is shorter and fatter, the ipod is taller and thinner.  They're about the same size and weight the same.The Dock:  The Karma dock glows blue when you plug it in.  It is very cool...  The dock also has RCA out and an ethernet interface.  All the ipod dock has is a 1/4 inch headphone jack type interface (in addition to the firewire)  The Karma blows the ipod away here.  Especially when you take into account the fact that the karma comes with cables to hook up to your stereo.  If you want to hook the ipod up to your stereo, you've got to buy a 1/4 inch audio to RCA cable.  The ethernet interface works really well for trasferring music on non-windows computers.Computer interface:  The Rio works via USB or ethernet.  It comes with all necessary cables.  The ipod works via firewire or USB - howerver, if you don't have firewire on your pc, expect to drop 20 bucks on a usb cable or 35 on a firewire expansion card.  It's worth mentioning that the ipod will charge off of a firewire interface (won't require a wall plug) which is pretty neat.Software:  itunes and Rio Music manager seem functionally the same.  You can obviously use ITunes to purchase music, so if you want that feature, you'll have to take that into account when making your purchase.Battery life:  About the same.  Don't expect 15 hours from either of them...  Or whatever the manufacturer says.  You'll probably get 5-6 hours out of both of them.Accessories:  The ipod kills the karma here.  I can't seem to find any kind of car adapter or place to buy another dock for my Karma...  I haven't tried a generic power adapter yet.  Price:  The Karma is way cheaper...  Even before you take into account the other stuff you might need to buy (usb cable/firewire card/RCA cables) for your ipodAll in all I'm happy with my Karma.  If I had to do it over again, I'd definitely buy another Karma.