ID: B0000C8VU8-RQWAJ4N1GP8NC-A2SHQJP6PNQTLD
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-6-3MP-Digital-Rebel-Camera
ReviewerID: A2SHQJP6PNQTLD
ReviewerName: M. H. Bayliss "book queen"
Date: February 5, 2005
Helpful: 15 of 18
Rating: 5.0
Title: Almost idiot proof
Content:
I had an Olympus digital camera for several years but it started to frustrate me.  The two HUGE advantages the Canon has is that 1 -- there is NO shutter delay that makes you miss the shot:  the shot is taken as soon as you press the button and 2 -- you can buy high quality lenses that make the camera even more amazing.  Let me say I'm not a pro photographer or anything, but I figured out how to use all the features of this camera within a day or so.  It's very intuitive and fun.  Don't be afraid to step up from your non SLR camera.  Besides, you can still "point and shoot" in automatic modes, but it's awesome to be able to control just the aperature or just the shutter speed.  The pictures this camera takes are incredible!!!  I have to admit I've gotten gadget fever.  I'll make some recommendations based on my two weeks with the camera.
1 -- buy a 1GB or bigger compact flash card with fast download speed.  At big megastores they are very much discounted.  Also, don't forget to REFORMAT the card every time you put it back -- my old cards always got "corrupted" and the way to avoid that is to reformat every time (just takes 2 seconds -- use the "format card" option on the camera menu).
2 -- buy an external flash.  You'll notice that the internal flash tends to overexpose yoru subjects -- I bought the Canon 420 (or something like that) and it's amazing. My pics are TWICE as good
3 -- I'd recommend NOT buying the kit lens and putting that money towards the exact Canon EF lens you'll need.  I bought one zoom and one prime lens and the quality is 10 times better. Plus, a 1000 camera deserves high quality lenses.  
4 -- don't forget the crop factor when you buy lenses!  It's hard to find this out on your own, but because of where the sensor is on Digital SLRS, you have to multiply the focal length of the lens by 1.6.  So, a 35 mm lens if you put it on this camera is equivalent to a 55mm lens, and so on.  Plus, if you have other non-digital cameras, be sure to be EF lenses only, not EF S which only fit on digital cameras.
My only complaint (and this is nitpicking) on this camera is that I wish the finish were tougher looking and not quite so plasticky.  I like the Nikon cameras and upper level canon camera materials, but I understand that this is how Canon can sell a camera which is optically as good as the 10D for a lot less. On the plus side, it's nice and light.
These are my thoughts after the first few weeks -- I LOVE the camera overall and now that I have two great lens, my pics look almost professional, not bad for a mom who doesn't know much about photography.