ID: B0009I4VE4-RT311NP1K1JNV-A2HC9549CZAKNN
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D70S-6-1MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A2HC9549CZAKNN
ReviewerName: B. McCarthy "Engineer, CERT, Amateur Radio Op...
Date: August 9, 2005
Helpful: 223 of 232
Rating: 5.0
Title: A bit of Advice
Content:
The other reviews and the description seem to properly describe this camera.  I am writing this review to give you the perspective of someone who started out with film SLR cameras in school, then got a digital 5MP camera and have used that for years and am now finally getting into Digital SLR photography.  This is a big step back into the professional circle for me, and I'm anxious to get out to the zoo or to some vacation spot in the mountains to do my professional photography once again.  I purchased this camera almost a month ago and my opinion is that it is the best camera ever made under $2,000.  This camera has everything you can need.
I want to warn you, get the full set with the lense.  This lense sells for almost $400 and is about the best all around lense you can find.  Don't go for the cheap models.  I wrote a list about this camera that may appear on this page for you to look at, but be sure that you get the ML-L3 wireless remote (for $20, how can you go wrong) and a spare battery (2,000 pictures sounds like a lot, and I haven't needed to recharge in this month that I've had the camera, but remember that when you go on a trip you may forget to recharge and you don't want to get stuck).  Also, get a tripod (try the Slik Tripods U9000, I wrote a review of it and I find it to be the best buy around for a light-weight tripod that acts like a much heavier one) and get a carrying case (the jury is still out, I haven't found one that I like, I want one that will hold two cameras, 4 lenses, a large flash and a bunch of accessories).
If you aren't sure if the D70s is worth the money over the D50 or the D70, it is.  The improved autofocusing system is much better than the others and the larger LCD is worth all the tea in China!  I leave the LCD protector that came with it on and have no problem seeing my pictures, even outside.  Although this is a larger camera than the D50, it isn't much of a difference and you will regret going with the cheaper camera.
If your budget was lower, save up and buy this camera.  I bought a CoolPix 5000 a few years back and always kicked myself for not going with the D100.  Now I've gone with the best camera on the market and I'm perfectly happy.  Plus, I have the satisfaction of knowing that none of my friends can show me a better camera (unless they spent $4,000 or more on a D2X or D2H, and none of my friends can afford to do that)!!!