ID: B00005UP2F-RHJ4N5HNNJ28K-A19VFBRK4BJYBT
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dirt-Devil-082600-Bagless-Canister
ReviewerID: A19VFBRK4BJYBT
ReviewerName: Christine Scott "New Vacuum Guru"
Date: November 29, 2004
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Amazing Suction & Two Ways To Vacuum Bare Floors
Content:
I love this vacuum!! :) I went nuts trying to find a vacuum that would work in our new home. We have hardwood floors with area rugs in most of our rooms and most vacuums I found would only work well on either the bare floor or the carpet, not both. I tried a couple of uprights before deciding to check out canisters. The uprights didn't seem to get all of the fur out of the carpets and they did a lousy job, at best, with the bare floors. The suction on this unit is amazing and it is adjustable. I have 4 ferrets and 2 cats that make a mess of our area rugs and a parrot that loves to throw his seeds all over the floor. It pulled the fur out of the rugs with one pass, after the Eureka upright I tried went over the area numerous times. It sucked the bird seed up without making the seeds fly across the floor. Although it comes with a separate bare floor attachment, the carpet attachment has a pedal that allows you to stop the brush from rotating so you can go from carpet to bare floors easily. Plus it is small enough to fit under your furniture. The dust cup is a great size. I can vacuum twice before having to empty it and it is a breeze to empty. One complaint I have is that the filter that is in the dust cup is attached which does make it harder to clean but I found that I could just take it outside, tap it clean and pull out any larger dust balls. Don't pay attention to the person who said that it is hard to tell the difference between the units handle and the handle for the dust cup. The dust cup is labeled, not to mention the handle for the unit itself is the color of the unit itself and the handle for the dust cup is the color of the dust cup. The vacuum glides over the bare floors and the carpet without any problems. I do wish that the part of the vacuum that the hose attaches to rotated but it isn't a big deal. Still a heck of a vacuum for any type of floor. I would highly recommend it. GO IMMEDIATELY AND BUY THIS VACUUM!!!!