ID: B000N3YBNQ-R3G1C2RG58RCZR-A2VI8HSK0RUT1Q
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL5020A-Intensity-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A2VI8HSK0RUT1Q
ReviewerName: Paul "lensovet"
Date: February 28, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great vacuum cleaner for an upright
Content:
This vacuum cleaner is great in many respects: the suction seems to be quite good, and there are easy-to-read indicators telling you when you should replace the bag and filter. In addition, the vacuum folds up very nicely and is quite portable, and has buttons right on the handle to switch between carpet mode and hardwood floor mode. While the bags are somewhat on the small side, I see that as a good thing since it means that you will be replacing them more frequently; plus, the bag replacement indicator takes out all the guesswork of deciding when to replace the bag. And, if you're afraid of running out of the bags, just get them from Amazon: Electrolux EL206A Intensity Upright Bags (be sure to buy them from *Amazon*, not another seller - just $8 for 6 bags!).
However, it does have some drawbacks. The main one, imho, is that it's still an upright. This means that you have to move the entire vacuum back and forth while vacuuming and that it's impossible to vacuum under things with low clearance, such as the bed. Canister vacuum cleaners outperform significantly in this regard.
Secondly, the power cord is way too short; I have to use this vacuum with an extension cord. Also, the plug is not grounded, which makes it much easier for it to come out by accident.
Also, I once replaced the bag incorrectly, and the vacuum did not detect this and still showed "optimal performance" - which resulted in all the dirt going into the bin holding the bag instead of the bag itself.
Finally, the build quality on this is iffy - the red plastic is actually regular plastic with red paint on it, which comes off very easily with even the most minor scuffing. A piece of plastic under the brush is also starting to crack for some reason.
Needless to say, this vacuum works great for the price of under $200, but if I had more money to spend, I would certainly invest in a canister vacuum with similar suction power.