ID: B000TGDGLU-R2KRE38A5B41SZ-A2OA18C6FUPAAJ
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-EW7707CM-Oil-filled-ComforTemp-Technology
ReviewerID: A2OA18C6FUPAAJ
ReviewerName: J. Harper
Date: January 9, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 2.0
Title: MAY BE PROBLEMATIC FOR BEDROOM USE
Content:
It's 5:30 AM and I'm awake because of that intermittent series of ticking, popping, cracking sounds that several other reviewers have mentioned. Every ten minutes the unit makes several metallic pings or pops in rapid succession.  The sounds are quite loud, e.g., about the same volume as someone knocking on the door.
It's almost definitely the metal--some part that is expanding or contracting with the temperature change.
I'm experimenting to see if the sound comes from one side or the other. (My unit has two radiator panels and you can turn them on and off independently.)  So far, with the left panel off and the right panel on, it has stopped popping, but that may be because the right side has not reached its shut off point yet as it has to work harder to heat the room.
If using just one side heats my bedroom adequately without popping, I may keep it.  Otherwise, I'm going to see if Amazon will accept return (before it's too late).  I tried to reach Delonghi but it's early Saturday morning and they are not open until Monday, and besides that, other reviewers on here have given Delonghi's support poor marks: Reviewers who have attempted to return the product to Delonghi have been told that they would have to pay for shipping, which made returning the unit cost prohibitive.
My suggestion to potential new purchasers who are debating whether to choose this product rather than a more expensive make and model is that you weigh the good and the bad reviews and consider the odds of getting a lemon that makes loud popping sounds.  You may want to take your chances, as many people have received "quiet" units.  Consider also how likely those periodic loud ticking noises are to disturb you, e.g., whether you're going to place the unit in your bedroom or somewhere where they are less likely to disturb your (or someone else's) slumber.  Lastly, I would suggest that if you do receive a noisy lemon, you return it via Amazon because Delonghi's warranty support sounds poor.