ID: B000VR3P9K-R1PXY1HA39YG2Z-A327ZQ4Y2W56OA
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB604LL-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: A327ZQ4Y2W56OA
ReviewerName: D. Perkins
Date: October 17, 2008
Helpful: 103 of 117
Rating: 4.0
Title: New macbook, new hardware, awesome
Content:
Apple is notorious for constantly updating their products, more or less to keep up the status quo on their products.  The new Macbook Pro is no exception.  This beautifully constructed laptop is a work of art in many ways in which i will detail.
SCREEN
The MBP has had a beautiful screen for as long as i can remember and this new model is no exception.  LED lit means that it is "instant on".  when you open the lid, there is no warm up time like there is with other screens like LCD ect.  The colors pop and are extremely vibrant and true.  If you have seen an older MBP screen, you've seen them both, kind of.  The new screen is all glass.  The glass extends to the very outer edge of the lid, leaving no empty space.  Simply put, you can't find a better screen, not even on a Sony machine (and i love sony also).
KEYBOARD
The new MBP has an updated keyboard.  The first thing you will notice is that the keys are black as apposed to the old silver.  The black adds a nice touch because it accents the silver case.  If you ask me, the old MBP had too much silver.  EVERYTHING on the machine was silver aluminum.  Don't get me wrong, i loved the old MBP, but this is just one step up.  The Keyboard is also backlit so when you are in a darker environment, the keys light up, helping you see anything and everything on the keyboard.  The Keyboard is absolutely beautiful on the machine and adds a nice touch overall to the look.
TRACKPAD
I find it weird that i can put an entire section on a review about a laptops trackpad, but this is undoubtedly necessary.  The new trackpad is ALL glass and there is no button---per say.  In reality the entire trackpad is the button.  They took off the button on the bottom and extended the trackpad down to give you more real estate.  Apple spent months designing this trackpad and i have to give them major credit for that.  recently me and my friend were looking at laptops at Circuit City, and one thing we did was go through every single laptop and look at it's trackpad.  It is absolutely amazing how much time and effort company's DON'T put into designing their trackpad, when in my book, it is a HUGE factor.  The coefficient of friction on this trackpad is exactly what it needs to be.  not too rough, not too smooth, just right.  I absolutely love the MBP trackpad and think it is something apple needs to be commended for.
GRAPHICS
Apple and NVIDIA joined up and came up with a new video card for this MBP.  The MBP actually has 2 graphics cards in it.  One that is integrated, and one that is dedicated.  The integrated graphics is NVIDIA instead of the old intel, so it is immensely better.  The dedicated card (which can be easily switched on) is a powerhouse and almost puts a MBP in line with other gaming machines, almost.  Needless to say, this notebook will do just about whatever you want it to do graphics wise, gaming, video editing, photo editing, you name it, it will do it pretty easily.  no worries here.
OVERALL
overall this laptop is at the top of it's class and you might be wondering why i gave it 4 stars and not 5.....first and foremost, money.  I have to say that this is still overpriced.  You are paying for a collection of things like the operating system, graphics card, high end components and things like that, but come on apple, 2000 dollars is a lot to drop on any laptop, no matter what it is.  Is it worth it? without a doubt yes, and that is why apple can jack up their prices, but at the same time, it seems like they are kind of taking advantage of us, especially in the economic slum we're in right now.  Maybe i am just cheap (which i don't think most people would classify me as that) but that seems a little high to me.  And another thing.  what is up with the new display port?  i have a 46 inch samsung tv and i will be hooking it up to my MBP but the cable is 100 dollars!!!! and that is just to dual link dvi----i still have to buy a dual link dvi to HDMI adapter after that. Ugh.  apple (along with other company's...cough cough monster cables) is completely ripping us off on their cables and that makes a difference in my outlook on the big picture.
CONCLUSION
The new MBP is absolutely stunning in every aspect of its design.  Apple continues to wow us, and they will also continue to prosper and grow.  I will be enjoying my new Macbook pro and i hope this review helped you in any questions you might have had.  It is an investment that will live for a long time and will be greatly enjoyed every day.  good job apple.