ID: B000VDQ38E-R1XT42QN43UNJS-A2CGU0KSTTAX83
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A2CGU0KSTTAX83
ReviewerName: pq
Date: June 13, 2008
Helpful: 10 of 13
Rating: 1.0
Title: Carpet Burn and Unsatisfactory Customer Service
Content:
We bought a Pet Hair Eraser in November '07. It's really amazing how well it works for picking up pet hair and all the nasty stuff that lies beneath the visible layer of carpet.
However...
it is now June '08, a mere 7 months later. This morning, when I used the hose attachment along the baseboards, the vacuum left a roller-length burn mark on the carpet where it stood! As I write this, I am on hold with the Bissell corporate office to find out what they can do for me, but I'm not sure as though a replacement machine will do. I'd prefer a full refund.
I do not plan on purchasing another Bissell product. I owned a $40 Eureka for over 6 years, and while it didn't clean my floors nearly as effectively, it certainly never damaged them.
...
10 minutes pass - customer service update:
I have been told by Bissell that because I rent my home, they will need to speak with my landlord regarding the issue. The issue, apparently, is *not* the defective vacuum cleaner, but rather the burn on the cheap rental carpet that more than likely cost less for materials and labor than the vacuum itself.
Steve Broemer @ Bissell Customer Service has assured me that in other instances when a vacuum has burned a consumer's carpet, it is "generally not an issue with the vacuum" - meaning that Bissell is not responsible for the problem. So, I expect that I will receive a similar negative response and have the defective vacuum returned to me without any kind of compensation. But, I'll hear from "Cindy" on Monday, anyway, to discuss the problem. In the meantime, I have to wait for a shipping label to arrive (Bissell would NEVER make a customer pay to ship a vacuum!), send the machine back, and wait some more - vacuumless, with two dogs and three kids - for them to "assess the problem."
I am prepared to send this Bissell product to recycling and go spend another $300 on a different brand.