ID: B00004R936-RPPPUU3W015DL-A3CU6H33BLNU80
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Melitta-MEMB1B-10-Cup-Coffeemaker-Black
ReviewerID: A3CU6H33BLNU80
ReviewerName: K. Schneider
Date: May 21, 2006
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: So far, So good ...
Content:
After looking at almost all consumer grade coffee makers, and some commercial 
models as well (Whew! Way Expensive!!), we came back to the Melitta, as price, function, and footprint, were high on the list. We loved the idea of the brew-n-serve feature - just add the beans, water, hit the on/off switch and return to a wonderful cup off coffee. The sneak-a-cup feature works without dripping the goods on the hot plate - I 
use this feature often as I am too impatient to wait for the whole thing to finish brewing
(hmm, too much java? Naw!) It fits nicely on our older, narrower, counter top, as the decanter and the grinder are side-by-side - keeping the depth to a minimum. 
We were concerned about longevity of the plastic lid hinge pins. After reading 
several reviews here, we ran across a few that mentioned the real problem  - poor alignment of the basket with the drive system. I don't know if ours is a 
later model or what, but it came with indexing marks to show proper alignment between the basket and the body. Check it out - Enlarge the photo at the top of this page showing the basket and look at the notched out section (top left), there is a indexing (triangle) mark.  
After using the machine for several months now I can say this:
There is a indexing dot on the body of the machine that lines up with 
an arrow on the basket. If you line up these two marks each time the 
basket is installed - it will line up with the drive system - and the 
basket (and lid) will allow the plastic hinged top to close with no problem.
As for cleaning - I just remove the entire basket and top assembly to
clean it for the next use. Oh, and make sure you put the lid (to grounds 
basket) back on, otherwise, the machine will not start - there is a safety lock-out 
switch that is activated by the lid when installed properly. 
I hope this helps anyone looking to purchase this machine - ok - now I'm going 
to the kitchen to get a refill on a excellent cup of java. Cheers!