ID: B0007QKN22-RHCGUI54LDD9M-A1F69WQW7XF9Y2
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-f3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A1F69WQW7XF9Y2
ReviewerName: Brandon!
Date: April 3, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Fun, sweet, great beginner level DSLR
Content:
The Canon Rebel XT is a great entry level camera for the new Digital SLR photographer. If you're reading a review for a Rebel, I'm going to assume you're deciding on your first DSLR camera. Let me save you some trouble and stress by saying ALL the entry-level DSLRs, from Canon and Nikon, are fine choices and you really can't go wrong. The camera body is the cheapest part of the camera you're likely to purchase, and it's really the easiest to make a decision on: go to a store, pick up a Rebel, pick up a D80 (the Nikon more or less equivalent) and decide which feels RIGHT. Come back to Amazon and buy that camera. Keep in mind that you'll probably be a life-long Canon or Nikon SLR owner at that point, as the lenses you'll later buy for your camera are brand-specific. The same lens will work fine with Rebels and higher-end SLRs, but it'll never fit a Nikon D-anything.
The kit lens is okay, and if you're new to Digital SLR's the kit lens makes a great first lens. There is a lot of noticeable distortion at the 18-20mm zoom range, and it feels like the cheapest part of the camera, but if you're buying your first Digital SLR it's no fun to have the UPS guy hand you a brand new camera that can't take pictures. It'll be a good lens for your first year, and you'll learn a lot with it.
I love the XT's size and feel, the buttons and knobs are in good places, and the camera looks impressive and feels well built. It's an older model camera but it's priced very well, especially for new photographers. Battery life is really great, and I hardly ever need to swap batteries when out. I wish the display showed the ISO, as I'm notorious for not checking the ISO and shooting in broad daylight at 800 or 1600 ISO. Newer models display the ISO on the back of the camera. This model also lacks the self-cleaning system, which may or may not be helpful in getting dust out of your camera. The Canon neck strap sucks, so shop around for a better one at your local camera shop.
Keep in mind, you'll also need to purchase a CF Card (I'd suggest 4 gigs or higher) a tripod, a camera bag and a better neck strap. Also consider a remote and the $90 Canon 50mm 1.8/f lens for low depth of field and low light shooting. Finally, you might want Understanding Exposure, a great book on explaining how light works with ISO, shutter speed and aperture.
If I had to do it all over again I'd happily buy a Rebel XT. I'm looking forward to upgrading to a newer, fancier Rebel next year, but only because I like giving my money to Amazon. There's no reason I need to upgrade, and there's no reason not to buy a Rebel XT. I couldn't be happier.