ID: B0000CFW8W-R1VX10EL8EHA7D-AZ950S22TMZSO
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-zd7010us-Laptop-2-66-GHz-Pentium
ReviewerID: AZ950S22TMZSO
ReviewerName: Tedd Riggs
Date: January 18, 2004
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: One unreal Notebook that can easily replace a desktop
Content:
The HP zd7010us is not for the "light of heart" PC user. First, it is big with the 17 ich screen and heavy (about 9 pounds) and unfort. with the high speed of this unit and the brillent display comes one big problem for portable use. The battery life. If you turn off most everything and are very carefull about the screen (use more contrast and less brightness) and do not access the hard drive to often, you can get maybe an hour of life and that is it. 45 mins is more the normal, so if you have a long plane flight, take a plane adapter or a extra battery or so. So thats the bad stuff.This thing is amazing at its speed, you rarely will see the hourglass display come on. The screen is great, very bright and clear, much like a desktop hgh end LCD monitor and the 17 inch size is great as you can see a full two pages of info, great for looking at two web pages at once. The sound with the Harmon Kardon speaker system is fantastic, I play "Titanic" on it and it sounded like you were at the movies. The disk access is fast and quite and the Wireless works without a hitch. Also its neat that it comes with a bult in card reader for up to seven different kinds of memory cards so no adapters are ever needed for this one, The keyboard has a excellent feel to it and the keys are well spaced and its nice having a seperate keypad. I found thee mouse touch pad to work very well and smooth, unlike alot of touchpads this one does not skip around. It has a large surface area that doubles as a wrist rest on the unit and the 60 GB hard driveis plenty. I might want to upgrade the memory to 1 GB some day, but in everything I did, the standard memory worked just fine and that involved many very large JPG files from my 6.3 MP camera. Even thou this is a large notebook, it has such a neat modern style that it looks very thin and you do not realize just ow large it is until its on your lap. I hardly ever used my desktop system anymore as this unit is so darn fast and everything just works fine. I have never had to reboot the machine and cannot find a single software problem. I updated mine with Windows Office 2003 and OneNote and that makes a fantastic combination on the unit. Be prepared that if you use this PC in public, you will get alot of people looking over your schoulder and asking "what is that" some think its the 17" Mac, but everyone that looks at it loves it. With the large frame, is helps out in the CPU problem of getting to ot to have in your lap, this one only feels a little bit warm.I cannot think of anything I would change on this unit (other then better battery life) but then with this speed CPU and screen size, I would not expect the worlds best battery life. I would say that HP has a very clear winner in this model !