ID: B0002TUVQM-R37RB60AE5T2QO-A2A4TS5CCX7BY9
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Back-Basics-CM300BR-Cocoa-Latte-Hot-Drink
ReviewerID: A2A4TS5CCX7BY9
ReviewerName: Melissa Reid Crystal "Melissa Crystal"
Date: September 23, 2007
Helpful: 13 of 16
Rating: 1.0
Title: Beware: The plastic in this mixer melts into your hot chocolate
Content:
I loved this for a while, even though I had complaints.  
Silly complaints:
The milk would froth and spill out, so I quickly learned to only fill it a tad bit over half-way.  It'd get too hot and burn the chocolate on the bottom so that it was nearly impossible to clean off completely.  Also, the little spout would get clogged with the high percentage cacao I'd buy to melt in the mixer, and it was hard to clean without pipe-cleaners.
Major, health-risk complaint:
After a few months, I noticed the hot chocolate started tasting funny, kind of like plastic or burnt tires.  Well, I noticed that every time I had to clean it, the bottom (of the mixer, not inside the tub where the hot chocolate would go) would have some gray liquid in it, but I just assumed that some milk was leaking through the screws that because it was new, some residue from manufacture was being cleaned off over time (so I'd tighten the screws and hope the problem would go away once it was all clean).  Well, this continued and eventually got worse and worse.  Eventually, I realized that the gray plastic spinner on the bottom that controlled the spinning motion inside of the mixer was melting because the hot chocolate mixer would get too hot.  I like my hot chocolate hot, and I assumed others would, so I didn't think it was "too hot".  Well, I guess leaving it on for the automated. set-in, standard time was "too hot" for the hot chocolate maker's little plastic mixer device, and it melted and was contaminating my beverages.  I noticed one day when the hot chocolate I had made was too low---I saw little wisps of gray floating in the chocolate.  I didn't think it was actually getting into my drink when I saw that stuff on the very bottom of the mixer... My logic was wrong.
I'm buying a different brand and hope I will not poison myself the same way I have with this defective hot chocolate maker.  The melted plastic did make me feel sick to my stomach every time I drank my drink, and after my discovery I am glad it wasn't the milk or the chocolate.