ID: B000IOTREI-R2NGWZUTNN6HQL-A1IGD4YUOBAECH
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Presto-HeatDish-Plus-Footlight-Parabolic
ReviewerID: A1IGD4YUOBAECH
ReviewerName: D. Joy
Date: November 28, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Types of heaters
Content:
Lets get things straight about heaters.
There are basically 3 types.
1 Convection heaters. These are the ones that heat the air by it passing over the element and may be forced with the aid of a fan. They make good heaters for a whole room
.
2 Conduction heaters like a water or electric radiator. They conduct, or pass, their heat to the air by direct contact, and as the name suggests radiation too.  They can be used for room heating too.
3 Radiant heater. Like the sun. They don't heat the air directly but whatever is in the way like you or a piece of furniture, should you want to! They are not room heaters. The heat radiates out just like the sun does. The sun's radiant heat will pass through a vacuum, as it indeed does, and heats whatever gets in the way. The earth. Neither of the first two heaters could work through a vacuum. Air is not required.
A convection room heater of 3kw may be enough to heat a room, but not a whole house. Take a look at the power rating of heaters like a heat pump or hot air systems and you will find that they use a LOT of power. Mine is 6KW rated. Or 6 times as much heat as the Heatdish. You don;t get anything for nothing. You need a lot of heat, then you use a lot of power. But high efficiency gives a lot more than low. That's where the Heatdish excels.
The Heatdish is a radiant heater. This is not to say there will be no room heating because anything that is warmed by the radiant heat from the Heatdish will pass on its heat by conduction and convection to the air in the room. But consider the heater to be radiation only.
For a 1KW heater is seems to be very efficient. Just get close to it - you will see, or rather feel.
You can tell it works very well by the red glow that completely fills the parabolic dish. A very well made and accurately shaped dish
An electrician. No, I don't have any connection with Heatdish.