ID: B0009HNH2M-R3VRVE54XL04WO-A1T7B1QZ5MJ6UF
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3590-Nozzle-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A1T7B1QZ5MJ6UF
ReviewerName: Hoover Lady "Lyn"
Date: October 26, 2007
Helpful: 15 of 15
Rating: 4.0
Title: Nice Vacuum
Content:
I almost bought a bagless canister, but all use a pricey hepa filter and are priced close to $200 up.   So I decided I wanted a simple old-fashioned canister vacuum with bags and at least some metal.  That's when I discovered the Duros had metal wands and I also noticed it was listed as one of the best reviewed vacuums by Consumer Reports.  Although it was rated in the middle - I read every review I could find.    I just didn't want to spend $400 on a silly vacuum.  The Duros uses low price bags, has no hepa filters to worry about, and the two motor filters are washable that they recommend cleaning at least once a year.  (Hepa or no hepa, as long as there is air for us to breathe - we will always have dust and allergens floating around.)   I find less mess and cleaner emptying of dirt with the bags.  This vacuum was less than $150.  It has very good suction, and seems better built than some of the plastic $300 models I've looked at.   The great thing is, the suction can be controlled along with the noise it makes, but it's not louder than any vacuum I ever owned.   I have owned 5 vacuums in my life and I have learned that model quality varies within a brand.   A higher price doesn't necessarily make it last longer or guarantee a better design.   The only thing I didn't like about the Duros was the fact that it didn't come with a simple floor attachment as so many have complained about.  So - I ordered a really nice one from a place called Ristenbatt online with several bags so that I wouldn't have to turn around and buy them all the time (since several people complained they couldn't find the proper bag).  There are several vacuum supply cos. on the Internet that sells the bags.  This vacuum takes a 35mm diameter size attachment.  The power nozzle on the Duros can work on bare floors, but again, I wanted a simple brushed floor attachment to grab hair and slide under counters etc.  The purchase of a floor attachment added an extra $30 to the overall price, but the total price was still under $150.  (By the way, this floor attachment I got has real bristles that dust the bare floors and it curves or turns as you use it! It's really nice - tough plastic too)   So, if there's a will, there's a way to solve the floor attachment dilemma.  I can see why some people said the small attachment holder on the wand is useless - as the attachments do fall off, but I don't want them there anyway.  Also, one can go to the Hoover site and look at the manual and study it (or any model) for more info about how this vacuum works and looks up close.  This is a great vacuum if one wants a vacuum with bags and no fuss with hepa filters.  I think it's well made in a world of plastic dominance and I could see some parts that could have been made out of metal for durability, but I will learn in time if the plastic becomes a problem.  I see cheap plastic on more expensive vacuums too, so I think it's the way of the world now to have to put up with all the plastic.  (Just like what we face with our cars today)  Have any of you looked at the plastic carpet attachment of the expensive Miele's? I checked out those pretty babies too. Duros's power floor nozzle is metal and has some plastic. This is a great vacuum for the price.  I give this vacuum 4 stars - minus one for not having a floor attachment. I hope this has been helpful for all.