ID: B000AAWEJU-R35TBC4GAKYE29-A1W36I44E9QPVD
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-Carina-Canister-Vacuum-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1W36I44E9QPVD
ReviewerName: P. Goddard
Date: February 4, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Light-weight, sleek powerhouse
Content:
I cringe at paying this much for a vacuum cleaner, but after the experiences we had living in Europe and using Miele washing machines, dryers and dishwashers, we thought it might be worth the price.  So far, it has been.
First, this is a beautiful machine.  The color is nice, and the styling of the buttons is nice, even if the power level button images are not at all intuitively read.  It's very lightweight, easy to move from room to room, and easy to lift up and down the three flights of stairs we have in our home.  And it's got great power.
We don't have carpets, only wood floors and rugs, and it works very well throughout the house.
There are three small reasons why I can't give it five stars: how it feels when it's on carpet, how the head feels, and the power setting images/layout.  To be clear, it cleans carpets very well -- this baby will surprise you -- it just feels different when you pull it back toward you, like it's no longer suctioning, although it is.  The other slight is that the head feels too lightweight.  We have a big family and use the vacuum often, even the teens vacuum with it, and it seems to be holding up well, but since it's so light it makes me nervous.  Again, it does a good job, just feels different -- too light.  Finally, the power setting images -- I still don't know what half of them mean, but you don't really need to, it goes from low power to high.
As for the positives, there are many.  It's powerful, lightweight and very quiet.  It does a wonderful job on wood floors, and a good job on carpets.  Its long power cord is a big plus.  It's got a good rotating hose and a very solidly built and well-engineered telescopic wand with good attachments.  The on/off button and retract button for the power cord are nice and big, easy to push, and work well.  In fact, the power cord retracting spring is surprisingly strong, seems like it'll last a long time.  The bag has a good capacity.
All that, and it's very nice looking as well.  It may not seem like a bargain initially, but if it runs like the other Miele's we've had the privilege of using, we expect it to be a good value over time, and in the meanwhile we'll enjoy using this very nice machine.