ID: B00008UI0R-R14IU0XQHJ3BJ6-A450XTBOTVYEX
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A450XTBOTVYEX
ReviewerName: mEmpress "M"
Date: January 14, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 2.0
Title: guess it'll have to do
Content:
i like Hoover. i like canister. bought this WindTunnel because my old Hoover Spirit motor is going out. what i like: great suction no doubt. its less loud than the Spirit? i cant really compare as the Spirit motor grinds but i guess its good to hear the phone ring again. except that i dont really hear it ring... i think i hear it turn off the WindTunnel & yes it is ringing. it looks grovy but good looks can pretty much be it. even though the Hoover fixer guy did NOT recommend bagless i like bagless which i empty after each use. if i dont like dirt & hair gathering on the floor why would i want it gathering in a vacuum till the bag gets full enough to empty it. so with each vacuum i empty the dirt & feel like yes now everything is clean. why i HATE the WindTunnel: it's overall design! the attachments do not clasp onto the wand! push one into a cushion & it pulls off the vacuum. what idiot designs attachments that DONT stay on?!? Three of the extremely small hense useless attachments fit in this itty bitty compartment on top of the vacuum which if you dont place in PRECISELY the right way/spot the top wont close. two other attachments dont fit on the WindTunnel AT ALL so these are kept in the closet or put wherever around the house when in use then constantly retrieved from last location when needed again. VERY ANNOYING. with my Spirit all attachments had a little slot on top the vacuum i could take off the wand with one hand while getting the nicely sized attachments with other & secure to vacuum with a twist of a connector. the powerhead of the WindTunnel is too big to fit under any furniture except a bed like 10 inches off the floor! even the bare floor head is useless for under furniture because it has a swivel connection which DOESNT swivel more than 75% so it wont go flat to the floor & under. so i'll either have to power vacuum literally by picking up & moving all the furniture. or hope the dust bunnies & spiders that gather underneath the dresser & armour & entertainment unit dont get too big come out & eat us in the midst of the night. my biggest peeve is the power control on the wand. the three operation modes [suction, motor for brush, and off... in that order] are very close & all in the natural while vacumming position for the thumb. i constantly gear up the suction go to power up the brush & accidently turn the whole vacuum off. then i read reviews about the product breaking & think ya... i can see that. i'd return the WindTunnel is a heartbeat. but Hoover hasnt made a Spirit motor in like 10 years. no one can rebuild mine. i cant afford a miele right now [probably closest in design to my Spirit but far better in performance] & unless i can teach husband 3 kids 2 cats & 1 dog to stay out of the clean house i guess this WindTunnel will have to do for now. but i curse it everytime i use it. and miss my Spirit.