ID: B000OK0YWK-RQKNIC0K0EW38-
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Red
ReviewerID: 
ReviewerName: 
Date: December 7, 2007
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent once Updated
Content:
There have been many bad things said about the original Zune, and I'll easily say that they were some massive problems.  However, I am writing this review after the new firmware and software has been released, so many of the other reviews and criticisms(Such as the most helpful reviews) are somewhat out of date.
First off, with the Zune 30, do not install the software given to you in the box.  Simply forget that disk even exists, because that cheesy Windows Media Player remix that comes with it is a thing of the past.  
Instead, go to Zune.net to download the new software, which is just excellent.  It has been built from scratch, easy to use, intuitive, just stunningly perfect overall.  I personally believe it way better than the iTunes software.  The only better thing iTunes has is more available items from the iTunes store.  I rate the NEW Zune software with a 10/10.
Second, the firmware you get on the Zune 30 is also a thing of the past. The new version (Which comes already loaded on the newer Zunes, but has to be downloaded for the 30) is much better.  Faster, better organization.  It has the new Zune "Social" option, for sending and receiving songs, pictures, etc.  It still wastes battery, so my suggestion would only to be when you know somebody else with a Zune is near you, or if you're in a crowded coffee shop, and simply want to check if anybody has one out of sheer curiosity.  
Also, a new feature, that many people were angry the Zune didn't have, is Podcast support.  You can now subscribe from podcasts from the Zune Marketplace free, just as you'd expect, and put those on your Zune.
There's another feature that many were desperate for.  Now their wishes have come true, with the new Wireless Syncing.  You can now connect your Zune to your home network, so it can sync wirelessly with your computer.  This way, you can have it sync overnight (or whenever), and have all your latest music and podcasts updated on your Zune.
And the overall design of the NEW firmware is near perfect.  In the main Zune Menu, the text is much larger and easier to see, so the only limit as to how far away you can operate it is limited to how far you can reach.  It takes less time to load, transition graphics are better (A small, stylish flash), and looks better.  When navigating a long list of songs, a big letter still appears on the side of the screen to see what section you're in.  Another large plus is the album art while playing songs doesn't look pixelated anymore.
Now onto the hardware itself.  The Zune is bigger than the iPod.  Even the new ones are.  There's no escaping that.  Many people say the 30 isn't pocketable.  It is.  Fits just fine into your pocket, unless you happen to have extremely small pockets.  
Now the looks.  
The Zune has what Microsoft calls the "Doubleshot" effect.  It's got a nice rubbery feel to it, and from the doubleshot effect, it gives off a different color glow around the edges.  I own the Brown Zune (Which is way better looking in person than it is on the internet, take my word for it), which gives off a green glow around the edges.  Very nice look.  Also, a little bonus is that the casing, because it isn't iPod style chrome (Which scratches and picks up fingerprints the moment you touch it), being rubber it repels fingerprints and scratches.  If it gets any fingerprints, they simply wipe off.
The little navigational pad.  No, it isn't an apple click wheel, but I prefer it to one.  It's simply a 4 way directional pad in the shape of a circle with a button in the center (used in the same way as the center button of an iPod).  You use it to navigate menus, change pictures you're viewing, etc.  While listening to music, you press up or down to raise or lower the volume, or press left or right to fast forward/backtrack in the song.  Besides the directional pad, there is also a Play/Pause button, and a Back button. (And a hold switch on top if you want to count that.
The screen is what really makes the Zune.  3 inches diagonally, It's big.  It's beautiful.  The background can be changed to whatever picture you want.  Great resolution, great for watching videos.  Which happens to be what I'm about to talk about.  Videos and pictures are handled differently.  You turn the Zune sideways (horizontally) to watch videos in widescreen, or view pictures in widescreen.  When in horizontal mode, the button commands on the d-pad change respectively, so that up and down in horizontal view is still volume, and left/right is still tracking.
And finally, the extra things that come with the Zune.  The earbuds are fine.  I'm not rough on earbuds, so they're lasting fine for me, and sound just as good as the apple earbuds.  The magnetic backs are also a nice little feature.  The 2 earbuds stick together, so they don't get as tangled in your pocket.  And the sync/charge cable... well, it's fine.  Nothing wrong with it, it's just a cable.
So, overall, the new software/firmware for the 30 make it infinitely better than with the old stuff.  Here are my ratings on the Zune and software, based on the NEW SOFTWARE/FIRMWARE.
Zune Software- 10/10 (perfect in all ways.)
Zune (new firmware)- 9/10 (Only thing keeping it from a 10 is that it still can't be used as an external hard drive.)
Well then.  This Zune, though older, can be as good as the new ones, and as of now, is worth every bit of what it costs.  Microsoft really did a great job making it into an entirely new system.