ID: B000I1ZWRW-RT8OV06UVQ9US-AGXV8E7XK9J6H
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-10-1MP-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: AGXV8E7XK9J6H
ReviewerName: Brian Koch "Aspiring Photographer"
Date: November 10, 2006
Helpful: 388 of 397
Rating: 5.0
Title: Difficult Decision (30D vs. XTi)
Content:
I had the Rebel XT and about 8 lenses and was thinking of getting an upgraded second camera body.  So when it came out the 30D was a logical choice, but it was not really much of an upgrade from the 20D, which I resisted, so I was not really sure what to do.  Then I had all but decided to just take the plunge and get the 30D when I heard the first rumblings about the XTi.
Then I started to learn the details about the XTi, more mega pixels, same auto focus, same screen, picture styles, dust cleaning!  The only areas that the 30D won in my opinion were build quality, spot meter, and estimated shutter life.  Those 3 categories were not enough to convince me that the 30D was worth $300-$400 more than the XTi especially since the XTi had won or tied in most categories.  The way I look at it is that the camera bodies are not nearly as important as the lenses, they change so fast that it is not worth it to me to spend more for longevity when it will be outdated in a year anyway.  Spend $1,500 on a lens, use it for a lifetime, spend $1,500 on a camera body, regret it in a year.  I fully expect the upgrade to the 30D to be released within a year, and now that I have saved by getting the XTi I will have all that much more to put towards it when it comes out.
So basically what I am saying is that, in my opinion, the XTi is just as good, if not better than the semi-pro 30D, so why pay more?  Switching from the XT to the XTi was very simple, I can use them both now without any problems.  The batteries, battery grips, remote shutter release, and most of the other accessories are also compatible with both, which is nice to keep the amount of gear you need to carry to a minimum.
Unless you want to move up to a full frame sensor, I can't see any reasons why you would not want to go with this camera.  If you read books on photography from just 1 or 2 years ago you will realize that this "entry level" camera has features that were not even available on top of the line ($5,000+) camera bodies.  With the speed that camera bodies advance you might as well buy the entry level body every year instead of making a huge investment in the pro level bodies and then being shown up by something 10% of that price in a year or two.  Not that there are not reasons to buy one of those bodies, I just don't seem have any of them.