ID: B000GBTTG4-R8081U6NFDKFZ-A1U75DBAUXQKE3
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Panasonic-DMC-L1-Digital-Camera-14-50mm
ReviewerID: A1U75DBAUXQKE3
ReviewerName: J. Boutilier "Jim Boutilier"
Date: February 9, 2007
Helpful: 54 of 57
Rating: 4.0
Title: Terrific DSLR for those with traditional values
Content:
I've been into photography for over 30 years.  During that time I've owned quite a number of film point and shoots and SLR's.  During the last 10 years I've owned a number of point and shoot digitals, super-zooms, and now my first Digital SLR.  Manufacturers included Agfa, Canon, Casio, Contax, Leica, Nikon, Panasonic, Pentax, and Sony.
During my DSLR search, I looked at Nikon D80 and D200's.  Canon Digital Rebel, EOS 30D and EOS 5D, and Pentax 100D and 10D, Sony Alpha, and of course the Panasonic DMC-L1.  My search started by pouring over specs and reviews at various sites including DPREVIEW and Steve's Digicam.  Then I took an in person look at all but the L1 at various camera stores.
I can't express the level of disappointment I experienced when handling these cameras in person.  All of the sub $1000 models felt like cheap plastic junk.  Flimsy ports and doors, rough cheap feeling controls, and flexing bodies abound, Even the upscale (supposedly)  metal bodied units did not feel much better.  And all of the included kit lenses were complete trash - all plastic, horrid feeling controls, and SLOW.  Now thats not to say some of these can't take great pictures, but I just can't get past the build quality and feel.
So the one camera I could not find in local stores was the Panasonic DMC-L1.  The reviews all seemed  to talk about the great build quality, the quality of the Leica lens, and pretty much panned most of the technology, ergonomics, and actual picture quality.  In desparation, I ordered one mailorder (from Amazon).
While I was slightly disappointed in the build quality (feel and materials), it was heads and tails above anything else I handled.  You could actually feel the metal.  Controls were much smoother and you got the impression this was higher quality product.  Well it WAS more expensive than any of the others (except the 5D) so I guess that fits.  You just don't get much for $1999 (actually ($1600) these days.
After handling and using the L1 for a couple days I find most of the things listed as Cons in the reviews were from prototypes and Panasonic seems to have corrected them in the production version.
Feel is good, ergonomics are good, focus is fast, picture quality is terrific and noise is effectively controlled.  Live View works great and is much faster than I expected.  The viewfinder is definitely dimmer than a Pentax, but on par with the low end of some other big name manufacturers and its definitely not "unusable".  Viewfinder image size is also smaller than some of the above, but larger than others.
All in all I am pleased with this product and for those with traditional values like myself where quality and feel is as important as function, this product is worth a look.