ID: B000FFQ4TG-R2LOFH5XS83VAJ-A2GT10L2FY7SXR
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: NHBX-B-Contemporary-10-Cup-Coffee-Brewer
ReviewerID: A2GT10L2FY7SXR
ReviewerName: Mike "vette7575"
Date: February 26, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: The only coffee brewer that should be in your home!
Content:
I roast my own coffee at home and this BUNN is the only coffee maker that has the honor of brewing my coffee. Sorry if I sound like a snob, but I drink my coffee black and the coffee just tastes better when brewed in a BUNN. All of my friends and family that come over absolutely love my coffee and actually drink it black when they normally load up with cream and sugar (calories and fat too!). So one could say if you are on a diet, then this is a must have!
No other coffee brewer heats the water as hot as this BUNN. Sure its more than that cheap $30 coffee maker at k mart, but there are also plenty of other coffee makers that are well over $100 and are no better than the $30 brewers - they just don't get hot enough. Also, like many so-called "12 cup brewers", the filter basket is not nearly big enough to fit 12 cups worth of coffee. If you are lucky, you can get 6-8 cups worth of coffee grounds. They should really be called: "Really expensive, extremely weak 12-cup coffee ruiner". At least that is not false advertising. 
Technical Greatness: 
- BUNN brewers also have a unique spray head that sprays water out in 5 streams to create the right amount of turbulence, rather than a slow drip like every other brewer.
- The water is heated in a stainless steel reservoir rather than toxic plastic tank.
- You pour the water from the front and don't have to open a hundred different secret compartments like all the other brewers and not have to worry about pouring water into the guts of the machine. The filter basket is also in the front and slides out with ease. 
- No timer. Yes, that is a good thing! The water is always ready for you and this coffee is ready to go in under 3 minutes. Swivel open the top, pour the water in, put the decanter in place, close the lid and 200 degree F water immediately starts to saturate your grounds. Plus, do you really want your coffee sitting around on the burner, getting burned, while you are in bed smashing the snooze button. You can brew a whole pot of coffee in the time that it takes a pod-type brewer to make just one cup. And this is no exaggeration. 
Do yourself a favor; spend the extra money NOW and buy this BUNN (or any other for that matter) and it will last for many years to come. We all know the cheap ones do not stay hot for very long and you end up throwing it out. So eventually, you will spend more than the cost of this BUNN.