ID: B000GLHVQE-R9MCMQO78RZOI-APWPVTSFJFDIM
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Dimplex-CS1205-Compact-Electric-Stove
ReviewerID: APWPVTSFJFDIM
ReviewerName: H. Stiles
Date: December 30, 2007
Helpful: 37 of 37
Rating: 5.0
Title: Heats wonderfully, looks great!
Content:
We got this stove as a Christmas gift this year.  My husband and I were both VERY surprised at how nice it actually looks.  The fire effect is very realistic for an electric unit, far more convincing than any other brands we have seen; as we have several friends with electric fireplaces and stoves made by different companies besides this one.  I had researched Dimplex brand fireplaces before, and everything they claim is true...no other brand electric fireplace (at least that I have seen) really comes close to the realism that they have come up with in their units.  Of course nothing will ever beat the look of real logs burning, but this is still great looking nonetheless.
We use it in our 14x17 bedroom, and it warms the room up nicely, in fact TOO nicely, as we are usually sweating to death halfway through the night! We have an old, drafty Victorian house that has very little heat coming into the room at all, and this little guy does a great job. We are planning on getting a plug-in thermostat to go with it.  In fact, that is my only complaint.  I wish it had a built-in thermostat so you could set a temperature for the room.  Because if you use a plug-in thermostat it will turn the entire unit off, including the flame effect, which I actually really like to sit and enjoy, whether the heat is on or not. 
I read another review about this stove that the door does not open.  Hmmm, that's interesting, because ours does open.  When I showed it to my mother and opened the door for her, she was convinced enough that she put her hands in front of the "flames" to feel the warmth.  
We like the stove so much we ordered black flue pipe and a collar so that it looks like it's attached to the chimney that runs up the one wall of the room. We are also building a tile hearth board for it to sit on.  If you need extra heat in a room, but want something that looks nice at the same time, this little stove really does the trick!