ID: B000AQPMHA-R20PJFN3NYFHPC-A179Y1ABPBNRXF
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Gourmet-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: A179Y1ABPBNRXF
ReviewerName: jlewiscpa "jlewiscpa"
Date: January 29, 2008
Helpful: 115 of 122
Rating: 3.0
Title: Ended up with the B60...
Content:
After having a commercial unit at work for the last few years, I finally decided to purchase one for the house.  After doing a fair amount of research, I decided I didn't need all of the bells and whistles on the other models, and purchased the B40.  Set up was easy enough, but the noise made by the unit when filling the tank was extremely loud.  The best way to describe the noise is to compare it to an air compressor when the compressor kicks on to suck in the air.  The unit vibrated excessively which caused items on the counter to "jump" around, and the noise was loud enough to make it impossible to hold a conversation when the tank was filling.  I "test brewed" a few more cups, and after each brew the noise and vibration kicked in again when the tank was filling.
After doing some research online, I think the tank filling mechanism on this unit is hit or miss.  Based on other reviews, it appears that some are extremely loud and others are not too bad.   My parents have the B50, which made much less noise than the B40, so I knew I didn't have to live with the noise on this unit.  I decided to return the unit and try the B60 instead.
Out of the box, the B60 looks almost identical to the B40, except the B60 has a digital clock and more silver plastic.  Size and build quality seemed identical.  I crossed my fingers and hit the button to fill the tank.  To my surprise, the unit was much quieter than the B40.  Although it still made some noise and vibration while the tank was filling, it was much less intense than the B40.  This unit sounded comparable to the B50 that my parents own.  
I suspect that the pump mechanism on these three units is the same, but for some reason some are louder than others.  For all I know, had I bought another B40, it may have been just a quiet as the B60.
  
All told, I am happy with the B60.  And the blue lights on the unit definitely enhance the "coolness" factor.