ID: B0000X7CMQ-RMHE1JPUGQOLQ-A16PYPCMR2K1FP
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Zojirushi-EC-BD15-Thermal-Carafe-Coffee
ReviewerID: A16PYPCMR2K1FP
ReviewerName: D. Barre "Ol' man DAB"
Date: July 24, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great choice
Content:
After my Cuisinart thermal carafe brewer stopped working I immersed myself in the Amazon customer reviews. I hadn't heard of Zojirushi and was a little concerned by the negative reviews but the more I read the more I started to think that the complainers hadn't read the instructions. After a week of pouring hot water into a #4 filter in a #6 Melitta basket (my emergency, we've lost power, backup) I was looking forward to getting my new brewer. First, it uses #4 filters with no modifications if you take a couple extra seconds to do it right: (1) fold the bottom and side seam over before opening the filter (apparently not everybody does as I discovered when I was discussing my brewer options with a friend), and (2) dampen the filter in the basket before adding the grounds.  Second, the carafe is big, holding a full 1.5 liters of liquid and it pours with a generous, no-drip flow, IF YOU FOLLOW THE INSTRUCTIONS. Line up the dots (or back off 1/2 turn from fully closed) and everything's cool. If you don't do that and try pouring with the top fully closed, then the coffee will dribble out the spout and also come out the vent holes in the top which is really messy. (I experimented with water in the carafe before I made my first pot.) 
The top can be hard to grip because it has a narrow rim so it can be irritating opening and closing the top 1/2 turn for each cup. I'm assuming that closing the top after pouring a cup reduces air infiltration and reduces cooling of the contents so if it really bothers you and you are going to drink the whole carafe in short order, not trying to save it for later, and you can accept slight cooling, then leave the top in the 'pour' position. Or keep towel nearby for better gripping. If this is your only complaint, just get over it.
Assuming the brewer lasts, and only time will tell there, this is a great brewer at a great price.