ID: B00006F2MI-RS4QVVB7XITSS-A3MHF7SNOBMX8T
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Grind-Brushed-Chrome
ReviewerID: A3MHF7SNOBMX8T
ReviewerName: L. Woods
Date: November 19, 2005
Helpful: 15 of 16
Rating: 2.0
Title: Had to add my 2 cents
Content:
Not only have I never written a review of a product before I wrote one about the Cuisinart Grind and Brew 7 months ago (see below), I now feel compelled to write an update after owning it for 8 months. It has now begun to leak from the bottom. What I find so distressing is that it could be the best machine out there with just a few improvements, but the flaws are so glaring that were it $30.00 I would not buy it again. My first review was fairly negative, however, I've had a while to use the machine. In all fairness, it makes a nice cup of coffee. However, I am having more and more trouble getting the coffee compartment to stay closed, it always leaks from the caraffe and now it is leaking from the bottom of the machine. I don't even think about using the grind feature anymore. You don't have to constantly clean a stand alone bean grinder. I'm not an engineer, but it seems to me that you could somehow separate the grinding compartment from the water compartment by just running the plastic up to the top of the machine or encasing the grind compartment so that the condensation didn't get to the grinder. Anyway, I honestly would think twice before purchasing this machine. My husband liked our old Mr. Coffee better for its consistency. 
I have never felt the urge to write a review until now.  There is nothing to add that other people have not said, however, this product has so disappointed me that I wanted to include another review to the list.  This morning was my husband's birthday.  The only thing he asked from me was, "Will you get me a cup of coffee?"  Sure no problem, hah!!  I had done the "clean every part thing" and proceeded with getting everything ready.  I didn't overfill the water level and it overflowed, making a 20 minute clean up necessary.  We've had grounds in the coffee for no reason.  Normally I research before buying but didn't this time.  I decided to take a look and my husband and I just started laughing.  We thought there was something wrong with us that we couldn't get this thing to run properly.  You shouldn't have to spend so much time on clean up.  We joked that the good reviews had come from people who had made the coffee maker part of the family.  "No, it's not too much trouble.  I wonder what old Cuisie wants for Christmas?"