ID: B000VDQ38E-RVL1B4OI3IRRA-A1FDAE1A1FVLYN
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1FDAE1A1FVLYN
ReviewerName: Pamela A. Wilkens
Date: June 28, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 2.0
Title: not what I hoped for....
Content:
To be fair, I am replacing a canister vacuum with this upright, however, it is somewhat heavy and cumbersome to maneuver and is lacking in edge cleaning.  While it is motorized to some degree so that it floats easily away from you it is a bit of a work out pulling it back.
The pet hair setting is amazing.  It pulled stuff out of my carpet that I think has been there for years and it does puff up the pile nicely.  Once again though, however, with the pet hair arm down it will not pick up anything even as thick as a gum wrapper. 
It does have a nice long very flexible hose for the attachments that rides along snaked around the backside of the upright.  Picture a slinky encased in flexible plastic.  It is easy to use and will expand to quite a length, but as before, however, it expands easily but does not like to contract back as easily and must be fed into place---it continues to suck while you do so and then you must insert the plastic tube on the end into a clip and insert the end into a tube on the back of the vacuum that is at an odd angle---while attempting to put this back into place this afternoon I had the tube under my chin and bent to put the hose back in its holders and got to close to the scarf on my french doors and it sucked it in and pulled the whole thing right off the window!!
The upholstery attachment does remove the pet hair from furniture well, again, however, it only brushes well in one direction so you must reach out and pull back each time rather than being able to go back and forth and when you are using the attachments even if you set it to bare floor the beater bar still must continue to rotate because it will dig a divet in your carpet where it sits.....so do the furniture first or you have to go back over the dents in the carpet when you are finished. 
Lastly, it is useless on bare floors, the controls are all located low on the front of the unit so inconvenient to get at, the collection cup must be emptied all to frequently and the cord is a royal pain in the neck.
All in all, like I really have to say this, I am not pleased.