ID: B0009T6ACY-R21XNS6LB98LFI-AN718C1P26VC7
Category: AirConditioners
Product: Frigidaire-FAP094P1Z-Portable-Conditioner-Electronic
ReviewerID: AN718C1P26VC7
ReviewerName: L S "msviswan"
Date: July 10, 2007
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Plug in and go, colds fast and better than I expected.
Content:
UPDATE: I just have to say, two days after I wrote this initial review, my unit went bad. The noise got really loud and it wasn't cooling as it should. I painfully dragged it out the house and I returned it the next day. I'm now using a Sharp brand and I'll write a review later down the months. How unfortunate, these things are so chancy 
I purchased this unit about three weeks ago, so I'm hoping my review isn't too pre-mature and I'm still waiting on my electric bill. I also had to purchase it elsewhere, because amazon won't ship it to me.  Apart from that, and over all, it satisfies to my expectations. However, I would only recommend this (or any other portable AC) only if you absolutely can not get a wall unit. 
Now, I found it to be a little too heavy and noisy. Even after considering it's an "inside" unit, this should still be a consideration for those who are sensitive sleepers, like myself. After a while, you may get accustom. It also took two adults to haul it up the stairs, but on the flat, the wheels should help you maneuver much better. Also, I naturally felt it took up too much space, especially with the bulky hose in the back (though, that's what you get with a portable) but there is another option to place it (heat exhaust) directly flush out a wall. Like I said it's better than I expected, but I will share my personal do's and don'ts opinion.
Getting the window heat exhaust-out instillation might be tricky for some depending on the type of window you have. I would also recommend either way you make sure the exhaust hose direct all the heat out the window and not be able to re-direct heat or even air back into the room. I had this problem for the first couple days, because I could not use the window boarder type adapter it came with. However, I got creative with my own sheet of wood and packing foam to flush around the exhaust and drain holes I created. Also, make sure you use the tiny drain hose (comes with the unit) so it can continuously drain the water out the little hole through the window by itself, for example. This is the better and expected option instead of getting up to drain the inside water bucket every couple hours as some have complained about portables. 
As for the performance conclusion: My bedroom is considered small to medium. Once the doors and windows were closed properly and the exhaust hose and window situation mentioned above was done correctly, it cooled the room better than I even expected (and I'm very picky).  It's plug in and go, easy instructions and not much assembly apart from plugging in the hose in the back. I also notice it gets cold real fast from the time you put it on. I mostly use a small osculating fan to help distribute the cold air from time to time (this helps also). I only keep the AC on low speed and yet it gets very cold at times and I live in a all around real HOT region. So far, this has been the best investment I've made all year! I LOVE it and I'm keeping my fingers crossed.