ID: B000TQEDE4-R2KZ9Q06ZDJLP7-A1OW133FP1YEB2
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1150BK-Programmable-Thermal-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1OW133FP1YEB2
ReviewerName: Kevin Fazio "Faz"
Date: July 3, 2009
Helpful: 13 of 13
Rating: 5.0
Title: I AM VERY PARTICULAR ABOUT COFFEE!!
Content:
I am very particular about just about anything.  But especially Coffee.  I drink 4 - 6 / 12 - 16 oz's a day.  I read almost every positive and negative review about this product.  This coffee maker lives up to the positives.  First,  It looks great.  
The only problem I had was figuring out how to set the clock.  (you have to hold down the clock button until it blinks).  Second, I did run water alone through it like the directions suggested to make sure it was clean and free of dust.  There was no plastic smell at all.
Third,  I decided to try the permanent filter even though I had a fear it would leave grounds.  It does not leave any grounds in the coffee!.  The only disadvantage is cleaning the filter.  When you dump it in the trash only about half the grounds come out and you have to rinse the rest of them out in the sink.  Not a deal breaker just an FYI.
Fourth,  I put cream in my coffee.  UPS delivered my coffee pot around 11 AM and my 11:30 I was having my first cup which was plenty hot.  I made a full pot without using the 1-4 cup button.  We then went out for the day and at 6:35 PM I decided to have a cup. Now I was assuming I would have to nuke it by then and was just curious how warm it would be.  Now I can not stand luke warm or cold coffee, to me it is disgusting!  at 6:35 with cream the coffee was still hot.
Now I know I just got it today but seriously for the money I do not think you can find a better coffee maker.  Oh as far as the beeps.  They ARE NOT crazy loud.  Whoever said that is crazy.  Also as far as the small marker on the side of the pot to tell the water intake and the small opening to pour water.  Ok yes it is a little small. But I have always used a plastic pitcher that I bought at a store for [...] bucks and I have no problems pouring it in.  as far as the marker goes, I actually look at it from the inside as I pour and I have not had any problems.  
Lastly what I do love about it is that is does not leak at all when pouring.  My old one leaked because I was trying to pour too fast.  I do rinse the top of it to make sure the ball does not stick.  Anyway so far so good.  I would definitely recommend this product.