ID: B0009VELUA-R3F1Y6EK32XJEU-ARTYTM1M9TQYL
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-2000-Coffee-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: ARTYTM1M9TQYL
ReviewerName: All-access Customer "tinacr"
Date: June 19, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 1.0
Title: Leaks
Content:
My husband bought the Cuisinart Coffee on Demand coffee maker a year and a half ago.  It would leave coffee on the counter underneath the machine.  If the counter was white then even though all of the liquid was under the coffee maker, I would have noticed some of it.  This hadn't been obvious to me because I had granite counters.  Unfortunately, when I went to clean under the coffee maker for the first time, I found lots of wetness.  When I dried it I was apalled to see that it had stained my granite.  I was very upset and the counters weren't even that old.  Wiping didn't fix that stain but a combination of flour and dishwashing liquid per a recommendation ended up cleaning it.  My husband called Cuisinart and they had us send it in, pay $10 and getting a new one.  Unfortunately this one had the same exact thing.  My solution?  I put a puppy pad underneath it (trying to fold it so that none or very little of the pad pokes out).  What's funny is that I don't even have a dog - I would just buy them for this coffee maker.  I did this for ages.  It was a far from perfect solution but at least the water was getting drawn away from my counter and not spreading.  As I said, I did this for a long time - maybe about 15 months.  I find it annoying and just ran out of pads today.  Then an idea came to me - I have a small stainless steel cookie sheet.  It was part of a set of 3 that I had bought at WalMart.  I put the coffee maker in it and since the back in which you would see extra pan isn't visible where I have it, I think this will work out better than the pads since I can have total confidence that no water or coffee will leak on my counter.  It looks fine with the cookie tray and it's not obvious that it's not just a part of the coffee maker.  Bottom line: I never had a coffee maker that had problems before this one.  I'd never had anything fancy before (Mr. Coffee) and they would work fine.  This one costs over $100 and has a leak.  Don't go through the hassle.  I'm sure you can find something with a similar look that doesn't have this defect. As far as I'm concerned, I'm going to use mine until it conks out.  Whenever that happens, I'll research a different brand of coffee maker and not get Cuisinart coffee makers again.  They are a fine brand for other products but awful for this.  Hope this info helps someone.