ID: B000VX7VJO-R186LGV4U5M91Y-A2TYFZCW8B4SON
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Breville-BKC600XL-Gourmet-Single-Cup-Coffee
ReviewerID: A2TYFZCW8B4SON
ReviewerName: Irene Bevilacqua "irbrenda"
Date: November 24, 2007
Helpful: 16 of 20
Rating: 5.0
Title: Perfect brewer; a work of beauty too!
Content:
I wanted the Breville Keurig style coffee maker because I also own a  Breville Juice Fountain Elite 800JEXL and they coordinate together beautifully.
However, there were obviously no reviews on this coffeemaker yet as it was too new, and I was certainly the first person that Bed Bath & Beyond sold this machine to on November 11, 2007.  It was also not on display there so I was taking a big chance buying sight unseen for $299.
 I purchased this machine 2 weeks before Thanksgiving and was planning to set it up and use it for company.  I went ahead and purchased a huge assortment of coffees, teas and hot chocolate from Green Mountain, as I have been on a coffee plan with them for a very long time...I grind my own decaf organic Peruvian beans from them and no one can tell the difference if it's decaf or caffeinated! However, my order did not arrive on time and I was forced to use my old no-longer trusty leaking Bunn maker that day.
Today, 2 days after TG, I received a few of my K-Cups from GM and did the unveiling.  Yes, it is an absolute thing of beauty, very well made, including a place to hold a coffee scooper and one MyKCup, both included in the bundle.  No, I still haven't received my entire order from Green Mountain, especially the decaf coffee, and so I had to continue grinding my own beans and use the MyKCup, which is ok with me.
Well, after unpacking this monster machine, I noticed a bad staining on the top of the machine...already not a good sign and really very surprising for Breville equipment.  I managed to wipe most of it away, not happy with the faded stain on the stainless steel, but I could live with it.  I followed the PRIMING instructions to the T, which is necessary before using the machine.  I followed the instructions to soak the included charcoal filter for 5 minutes and then rinsed it, set it in the filter holder, set the month to change filter setting (recommended after 60 uses, approx. 2 months), plugged in the machine, set the 12 oz mug in place to catch the water while priming, but the machine is supposed to default to a 7.25oz setting and it would absolutely not set to any setting but the large travel size, no matter what I did to try and reset the computer.  The menu settings would not hold on the cup size.  I tried to prime this thing anyways.  It kept spitting out 5.25oz of water, regardless of the fact it was set for the large travel size of 11.25 oz.  
I then saw water accumulating in the drip tray, and soon it was all over the place, constantly filling up and after several tries of dumping the catcher, resetting the priming action, trying to then make coffee, the machine refused to make anything larger than a 5.25oz cupsize and the rest was filling up the drip tray under the mug.  I had coffee grains all over the place, useless K-cups wasted too as I figured I'd give the samples a shot, and all in all, it was one HUGE mess in the kitchen.  I then said, "This thing is either not meant to be or it's truly defective from the moment I opened it and saw the minor blemish."  I know Breville's reputation and decided to return this disaster and try another.
AWESOME is all I can say now!  Beautiful machine, works as it should, no dripping under the drip tray, the computer works exactly as it should; I am able to select my cup size as I should have been able to the first time.  And what else can I say but it made the perfect, absolutely perfect cup of coffee using my own grinds for now; perfect hot chocolate, and a great cup of tea!
All in all, a machine is just a machine, a computer is a computer, and we all know what happens when a computer decides not to operate up to snuff!  
Bed Bath & Beyond asked no questions and immediately replaced my product, didn't even care about my receipt, which surprised me too!  I'm kind of glad I purchased this near my home and not online.  I generally purchase everything thru Amazon but BBB had this in stock and I wanted it NOW!  
I'm stil rating this 5 stars because Breville makes outstanding equipment and the first one was just flakey.  The second seems great and only time will tell how well it performs.  But for now, I'm elated it works as I expected and it looks gorgeous next to its sister juicer!