ID: B000EPLP3C-RTWN8LJ54DJMH-AGLKPZQIZP8DV
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Black
ReviewerID: AGLKPZQIZP8DV
ReviewerName: Peter K. Kirsch "pkkirsch"
Date: February 1, 2007
Helpful: 13 of 18
Rating: 5.0
Title: Zune is awesome!!!
Content:
When I was looking at Zune and the ipod I did a lot of research on both. I am not an apple person admittedly but I was leaning toward the ipod in the beginning. The more research I did the more I was starting to like Zune. I tried out both devices and I was now almost sold on zune. The controls were very intuitive and easy to use. I can not believe I am saying this but the graphics and screen (much larger when compared)are far superior (in general for graphics I think apple is better as do most). My decision was made easier by everyone I talked to that had an ipod liked Zune better. I love it. Yeah the battery(12-14 hrs) is not the best but I heard the same about the equivalent ipod 30G except for the nano (24 hrs) which does not have the memory. The radio is great(ipod lacks this feature) and honestly each time I pull zune out to change a song or whatever someone stops me and wants to see it. The wireless I have not really used as I have kept it turned off lately but that is a really awesome feature to have as more people buy zune. In Boston the electronics stores are saying it is easily the number 2 seller for MP3 players. There are a lot of bad reviews out there but as someone who was going to get and Ipod and did not I am very happy with zune. The marketplace is awesome and still developing but I like it better than itunes. The technology is only 3 months old so give it a little time and the fact zune can upgrade b/c it is microsoft is awesome. I highly recommend zune. Everyone and I mean every one of my friends that has an ipod and then checks out my zune and loves it.If you are looking around do some research and try both of them out, my guess is even if you are an apple guy you will find zune really cool. It is above all a personal decison but do not believe the bad press you would be passing up a gem!!