ID: B000IOTREI-R1ZKU4UVOO7UDU-A1F73EFRH567R8
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Presto-HeatDish-Plus-Footlight-Parabolic
ReviewerID: A1F73EFRH567R8
ReviewerName: G. Leffler
Date: January 27, 2008
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great as long as you know what you want
Content:
The Presto HeatDish is a great radiant heater but it does have some limitations that are inherent to any radiant heater.
First, it's not meant for heating an entire room - it's meant for heating objects (people). While it WILL heat an entire room, it is inefficient at doing so. The advantage of the radiant heaters like this one is that you can feel the warmth from it instantly, and it is concentrated well over a very small area. The heater works amazingly well if you are alone in a room and aren't moving much. You can keep it on a low setting and let it heat just you far more efficiently than you could heat the entire room, and the heat is direct and intense.
The downsides to this heater are two: the biggest one is that it makes you wonder what genius engineer at Presto thought "You know what would go well with a heater? A blindingly bright night light!" The nightlight cannot be disabled or turned off - if you don't want it brightening up your entire room when used at night, you have to remove the bulb.
The argument one might make for the nightlight is that if the unit is on a high setting that the back of it glows orange and it does illuminate the room a bit falls on deaf ears. The nightlight is seriously bright and it makes no sense at all to combine a nightlight with a heater.
The second main downside of the unit is that whenever the heating element cycles it emits a strange buzzing sound while it is warming up. The buzzing sound lasts about 8-10 seconds and then stops, but if you have the unit on a low setting, you will hear it cycle very frequently (roughly every 3-5 minutes.)
The third downside is that if you have this heater on anything above "Medium", it is HOT if you are within a few feet of it. Uncomfortably hot.
Finally, overall this heater is excellent for directed heat at one person. It does also heat the room if left on for a while. Remove the bulb from the nightlight and either turn the unit off or on to a medium setting, and you'll love a HeatDish.