ID: B000TGDGLU-R60XI1CYOZ1M9-A3UBQISDLAM424
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-EW7707CM-Oil-filled-ComforTemp-Technology
ReviewerID: A3UBQISDLAM424
ReviewerName: B. E. Rayburn
Date: October 23, 2008
Helpful: 36 of 36
Rating: 5.0
Title: No better heat than this!
Content:
I purchased two of these radiator heaters last Fall and used them all through the heating season. They are wonderful. SO much better than any blower, convection, or ceramic heaters I've had - and I've had them all. Our 152 year old house has hot water (boiler) heat so we're used to a system that doesn't blow and dry out the air but with fuel oil prices as they have been for the past few years we just can't see heating this big old house with our furnace. We have a woodstove to heat the major portion of the house but our bedroom and utility room are cold due to being away from woodstove heat and are both drafty rooms to boot. These heaters worked so well to keep those two areas perfectly comfortable without the drying effect of blower or convection heat. For years we've struggled with noisy, drying space heaters that caused much stress due to fire hazards etc. Contrary to what one review said this "Safe Heat" heater is truly safe. There are no serious fire hazard warnings on this item because it does not get hot like a convection or coil heater. In fact, you can touch the radiator itself and it would not burn skin. I wouldn't sleep with ANY other space heater on in our bedroom (which made for cold nights before we had these heaters) but this heater is perfect for just that. It is truly not a fire hazard if you set it in a place that is recommended in the book that comes with it and follow the safety instructions which mainly say not to put objects on the heater itself. The reviewer that said it took up a lot of space may have been treating this heater like the other types of heaters but it's not necessary. This heater should be treated as a "heater" for sure but it's not going to radiate the kind of heat that would set things on fire unless they were laid on top of the heater where the heat radiates up and I'm not even convinced that would set anything on fire. The footprint it takes up on the floor is very small. 
It is a completely different heater from the other types of space heaters. 
One reviewer said it's not "fast enough" to warm the room. This IS NOT a heater you would turn on and off whenever you walk into/out of the area you want to heat. It works with a thermostat and if left "on" at the comfort level you desire you practically never have to touch the heater again, unless the weather gets extremely cold in which case you would turn the thermostat to a higher level. We found that these heaters are very cost efficient to leave on with thermostat set to our desired warmth. It's the same principle as you use with whole house heating - you don't turn your furnace off every time you leave home, you just turn the thermostat down.
I turn them down during the day and then up at night but leave them on so that we're not "starting from scratch" to heat up the areas. 
Unlike other heaters that can't be left on safely without being monitored, this heater can (and to work efficiently SHOULD) be left on because it is NOT A FIRE HAZARD and works with a thermostat. The only real fire hazard issue is that it can not be plugged into an extension cord safely and the plug itself can get hot if not in a proper outlet. In fact, if there is a fire hazard with this heater it's the cord that is the issue not the radiator itself. The cord is long enough though that it is not a problem for us to put it where we want it and plug in properly. 
I just turned one of these heaters on today and I'm as happy to have it as I was all last Winter. I can't say enough good things about these heaters. They have met and exceeded all of my expectations. Even the price I paid for them was remarkably good. I paid less for one of these heaters than I did my "ceramic dish heater" that for numerous reasons I was almost never able to use. I even love that it's on wheels. Easily moveable on my utility room tile floor.
There is just nothing bad to say about this heater. Exceptional is the word for it!