ID: B00067TTYK-RA6PHH9XVIP3O-A16GVUHO9D4HOY
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Zen-Micro-Player-Green
ReviewerID: A16GVUHO9D4HOY
ReviewerName: YaraelPoof980 "Disgruntled Jedi Master"
Date: August 24, 2005
Helpful: 6 of 12
Rating: 1.0
Title: WHAT IS WRONG WITH THIS THING?!
Content:
I have had a life of crisis with my Mp3 players. First I got a Virgin Player 5GB. Worked for about three months.
So, I got a little Zen Micro. I heard they were pretty good. 
Installation wasn't really any major problem. I got it up and running pretty quickly, charged it for about 3 hours, then loaded my songs onto it.
I wasn't really used to the touch pad the Zen Micro has. Anyone who has owned an iPod will be sort of familiar with it. I found it very annoying since I had used a button pad on my Virgin Player.
It took me a long time to get used to the touch pad. About a week, which in my mind is too long to learn to control an Mp3 player. 
After about half a month of use, the problems started.
One day I was charging my Micro by hooking it up to my computer via the connection cable. I left it alone for a couple hours. Then I came back and it was making this weird buzzing sound. I looked on the screen and it read, "Hardware problem." 
I got a return authorization from Creative so I sent it to them and they sent me a new one. 
Again, about half a month later, I saw the words "Hardware problem" on my Zen Micro's screen.
I got ANOTHER return authorization so now I'm on my third one. I was on vacation at the beach and I carelessly went in the ocean with it in my pocket. I know, it was stupid of me, but actually my Zen Micro deserved it.
It was only a couple seconds of being in the ocean when I realized my Zen Micro was in my pocket. I immediately rushed out.
Some Mp3s will work if you get a little water in them. This one was broken for about a month. 
One day I tried customer service and got it working again. I was like, "Oh, joy, I got my Zen Micro working again." 
By now, I was wanting to smash this thing with a hammer. It was with great hesitation that I decided to use it again.
Just to make sure, I got a THIRD return authorization and they sent me yet another Zen Micro. 
Three days later--"Hardware problem."
My fourth return authorization they denied. I guess they got tired of caring for my carelessly made Zen Micro.
Now, the only problem is thinking of a way to destroy the player. Should I fry it? Should I put it in pizza dough and make a pizza? Should I pour gasoline over it and then throw a lit match onto it? I'm not sure, I still haven't decided.
The only joy you will get out of this player is massacring it after the fourth return authorization. 
I will never buy another Creative product again.