ID: B000N3YBNQ-REWBIALFBQFDP-A1VUN4JU731CBH
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL5020A-Intensity-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1VUN4JU731CBH
ReviewerName: I. Peters "Miezekatze"
Date: March 4, 2009
Helpful: 15 of 16
Rating: 2.0
Title: Significant Design Flaws
Content:
I have had an Electrolux Harmony canister vacuum for several years now, and still love it. So when time came to get an additional upright, we bought the Electrolux Intensity. But we are disappointed and here is why:
- The Intensity seems to value design over function. It looks cool, no doubt, but in this case the design compromises performance by only allowing for a very short cord and an equally small bag. It is too compact for its own good. I couldn't believe how often I had to plug/unplug/replug in order to get my downstairs done. For a small apartment this might be a great vacuum, for my home, it is annoying.
- The right wheel was loose when we received the Intensity and despite having tightened the respective screw several times, it keeps coming loose and occasionally the wheel falls off. The really stupid part about this is that when one tightens the screw, the wheel does not turn anymore. But if you loosen the screw a bit, the wheel turns and falls off after just a short while. Who designs stuff like this? The junior designers?!
- I like the folding handle and the fact that one can switch between the different modes by pressing buttons on the handle, no need to bend down or use foot pedals. However, again something isn't quite right with the ergonomics/physics here: Pushing the Intensity is way too hard and I feel it has to do with the handle design. Whether the handle is too light-weight for the heavier actual vacuum part, or whether there is just something wrong with the angle at which a normal user ends up holding the handle, I don't know. All I know is that pushing/pulling is exhausting.
- I also noticed that the very top part of the handle is  a rounded plastic cover piece, and it feels to me that it won't take long for this to separate from the rest - it bends and is squeezable. But because it is so hard to push the vacuum, one needs to keep a firm grip on exactly that part of the handle. Again my question: Who makes such design mistakes?
- The one positive note: The vacuum performs well and picks up quite a bit of dust and particles. But that's about it.
We got this machine at a really good price so it is not too bad, but I am still considering sending it back because I feel that it will fall apart soon anyway.