ID: B0002XQI2E-R1F8D848JPAWT4-A3HA3HNQP3Z5F3
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-20D-8-2MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A3HA3HNQP3Z5F3
ReviewerName: father2 "father2"
Date: November 26, 2005
Helpful: 13 of 14
Rating: 4.0
Title: Giant Digital SLR Camera
Content:
Without doubt this camera is impressive.  The moment you put the 20D into your hands you feel at home with it.  The 20D just feels impressive and taking images with this camera is a joy, though more demanding than your normal point and shoot digital camera.  Getting to know your 20D will pay lots of dividends in the long run and I would suggest that owners of the 20D read the instruction manual and then read it again, while trying out all the many and varied functions.  
It is important with a digital SLR to choose quality lenses.  If you buy cheap don't be surprised if your resulting images lack the quality that they could command.  A quality flash gun like the 580 EX Speedlite will further help your image taking.  Furthermore, I find the BG-E2 Battery Grip - which holds an extra battery - an important accessory along with the Remote Switch RS-80N3 to minimize camera shake.  On the memory front, choose well!  Cheap memory can result in the loss of those precious images you have spent so long taking.  And make sure you have enough memory because an 8 MP digital SLR on RAW mode eats up images at an alarming rate.  Personally I have three 1 GB memory cards and still I don't think this is enough.
Once you are set up with everything you will find taking images with the 20D brings you many hours, days, months and in the end no doubt years of fun.  The shutter is noisy making the 20D limited for wildlife work but when taking images of landscapes, people or my personal favourite, macro work, then this camera has the lot.  You get the build quality of Canon's professional cameras without the price tag.  The 20D is heavy, especially with the battery grip and a quality lens attached, so be prepared to use a tripod to help you avoid camera shake.
This camera is beautiful and the little niggles I have over the focusing system etc have not stopped me loving the 20D to bits.