ID: B000KJQ1DG-R1SLRE5U6C8V6U-A3A24GCW5ZZ8EY
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G-Zoom-Nikkor
ReviewerID: A3A24GCW5ZZ8EY
ReviewerName: jay
Date: November 3, 2007
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: A wonderful camera
Content:
I bought this shortly after our first child was born.  I was tired of missing great shots because of the delay in my point-and-shoot from the time you pressed the button to the time the photo was snapped.  No problem any longer!  I loaded this camera up with a 2 GB memory card and shoot away at nearly 3 frames per second to find just the ones I was hoping for.  It's worked beautifully.  The biggest problem is, there are usually too many great shots to choose from!
I have wanted to get back into SLR photography for years, and this is a great camera for someone wanting to go digital.  I looked at the D40x, but opted for this one.  Several sites had comparable photos side-by-side between the two, and the difference was hardly noticeable under most conditions.  I have printed beautiful 8x10 images with this camera with absolutely no complaints about the quality.  6 megapixels makes transfers to the computer faster and take up less space.  The resolution is wonderful and the included kit lens does a nice job.
The camera feels great in your hand.  It's heavier than a point and shoot, but I have no complaints about the weight.  I bought an SB-400 external flash which does a nicer job of filling out the light in the photo than the built-in flash.  The built-in flash is fine for all around shooting, but the external provides better fill flash capabilities, which usually is a more even lighting effect when you are taking pictures of a little one to send to the grandparents.
I've had this camera for about 2 1/2 months now and taken literally thousands of shots with it.  I am incredibly happy and satisfied with this purchase, and would highly recommend this camera to anyone who is investigating an entry level digital SLR or an all around camera that takes wonderful pictures.