ID: B0000SWDR0-R3KA1ALBEFQ08Y-A21WWBNFS5IYU4
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-Vacuum-Cleaner-EL6989A-Canister
ReviewerID: A21WWBNFS5IYU4
ReviewerName: A. Haman "MrsPokerPro"
Date: June 9, 2006
Helpful: 11 of 12
Rating: 1.0
Title: Worst ever
Content:
I had an old Sears vacuum that I used for 26 years and never had a problem with.  I was determined to find another vacuum with "onboard" attachments.  I mean who wants to hold attachments in your pocket as you go around the house?  Well, this was touted as having "onboard" attachments but that is at best, a great exaggeration.  It has a flimsy little attachment that you connect to the back of the vaccum every time you use it and you can hook up a few of the attachments to that.  But don't think you can store it that way.  No.  The attachment gadget attaches on the back of the vacuum so if you store it standing up it knocks off all the attachments - something that also happens every time you go around a corner with those things on the machine.  So now I have the vacuum stored in one closet and all the attachments on the top shelf of another.  
I agree with the reviewer who complained about the handle turning to right.  I too spent an hour trying to figure out what was wrong with the wand and why the handle only turns to the right.  What a design flaw!  My arm aches after only one room because I am constantly trying to keep the floor attachment straight and have to fight it as it tries to flop to the right.  Then if I need to turn to the left, I have to fight the whole machine.
I disagree about the suction being too strong.  That is a good thing.  And it is easy to turn down.  but I HATE the fact that the turn on/off switch is on the body of the machine and not on the top of the handle (as every other vacuum does).  This means that because it is a cannister you have to run back to the body to turn off the vacuum every time you need to.  And I need to a lot.  Things get sucked up that shouldn't, or you have to move a piece of furniture and don't want it running the whole time, etc.  You would be amazed at how many times you need to turn the thing off while you are using it.  (True of all vacuums of course).  Thing is, because you have to go back to the cannister to do this, it can be a real pain.
Moreover, I have used this vacuum 5 times and since the second time, the main floor attachment has been squealing and when I tried to take it apart to clean it, I noticed it was only attached with ONE screw and all the rest of the screw holes were empty.  Is this a refurbished machine being sold?  Now I have to take it in to be serviced and hope that it is determined to be something under their warranty.  The Electrolux people weren't very encouraging and did their best to hedge as to whether the noise would be covered under the warranty.
All in all, between the attachments I have to hold in my hand/pocket while cleaning, the wand turning to the right only, and the poor performance practically right out of the box, I would say this vacuum is terrible.  Even though I got it on sale for 449.99 instead of 600.00 I still feel like I got ripped off.
I would give it no stars if possible, but one star is the lowest rating available.