ID: B0009GZAWS-R2UP42XXB4131Q-A39UPXR9VTHNNH
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-Camera-18-55mm-55-200mm
ReviewerID: A39UPXR9VTHNNH
ReviewerName: Henry Gaillard "Tech Savvy"
Date: February 20, 2006
Helpful: 16 of 18
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best Digital Camera I ever owned
Content:
Here is my review of the Nikon D50, the best digital camera I ever owned.
When I went to buy this camera, I wanted a camera that would be able to take pictures faster than the compact models and most of all, a whole bunch of manual features that I could use when I wanted to.
I bought this model at Best Buy for 699.99$ with a 512 Mb card (Ultra II) 70$. All taxes included, it was about 800$ which is extremely low priced for such a quality camera. I got home and charged the battery, which took about 3 hours for the first time.
I went outside and tried it and I was really impressed by the quality given by this camera. The pictures were sharp and crisp and after about 100 pictures, I barely got ANY soft tonned pictures, if any. They were all sharp and clear. 
Another thing that amazed me about this camera is the ability to let the camera do all the work for you with the focus, ISO, aperture etc. or being able to partly, or fully control it yourself. 
Also, the camera turn on the second you to and taking pictures is very speedy.
Now that was during daylight. The same day, I went up on the roof of my house and tried to take some night pictures of San Francisco. I tried some manual controls and again, I was amazed with the results. Even at 800 ISO, the noise was barely noticable and when I put them on the computer and i sent them to my friends, they wouldn't believe I had taken them myself.
Last I am going to mention because, although it is only one of them, this one is one of the biggest qualities of the D50. It has a FANTASTIC battery life. I have used this little baby for one week straight, taking about 100-200 pictures a day and it did not even go down. I am telling you, this is the best battery and you could go on a trip for a whole month, without taking the charger.
Ok, I could talk for a long time about all the features of this camera and sound like I'm actually working for Nikon, which i'm not. It all rounds up to this: If you are looking for a great that camera that offers a lot of manual controls but also gives you great results on the automatic mode, well this camera is for you. Don't even think about going for the Canon Rebel XT because the Nikon D50 is cheaper, and is the best camera you can get for the money on the market.
If you are still hesitating, I suggest you take the plunge: you'll be glad you did.
Hope this helps, enjoy.
P.S: I strongly recommend you take the fastest SD cards on the market (Ultra II) to save your pictures. They might be a little more expensive, but it will save you a lot of time when taking the pictures. You don't neceserally to take gigs of memory, 512 is plenty enough.