ID: B000EPLK6O-R3UGPIMB5YC5US-A345K46HJQC6IQ
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Zojirushi-EC-DAC50-Zutto-5-Cup-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A345K46HJQC6IQ
ReviewerName: Shelby Staples
Date: January 13, 2007
Helpful: 16 of 26
Rating: 2.0
Title: Can't believe the hype
Content:
I read the other reviews of this coffeemaker, plus many other, plus a list by someone named Neil (I believe) and even he recommended anything by Zojirushi over many more recognizable names.  I fell for the "rave" reviews.  I ordered.  It arrived two days ago and was taken back to UPS the next day for return.  Complete disappointment - main reason - coffee not hot, and I mean NOT HOT, not even lukewarm (hardly) when cream was added.  Someone had mentioned (and it was in the attending info booklet) about warming up your cup before pouring.  My husband thought this absolutely absurd and said that before he would have to go to so much trouble just to have a nice, hot cup of coffee with his morning paper, he would just do without.  I did like the size, the simplicity of operation,(reason for the two stars) though some features that would have been nice were missing (and I already knew this when ordering) - no automatic shut-off, for one.  The price was excessive (nearly $75.00 with shipping) which was nearly nine dollars to get here and had to pay another nine to send it back.  $18.00 down the drain and still have to look further for a coffeemaker that will actually make HOT coffee.  I am not talking about scalding here, just good and hot, adequate enough to still remain hot after cream is added.  Have been told one of the coffeemakers - Cuisinart Brew General (I believe that is the name, spelling probably wrong) that was "bad-mouthed" by this fellow with the list of recommended coffeemakers, would be an excellent choice.  Two people I have found today who have it, and say it produces HOT coffee.  So much for listening to others in these online reviews, and especially when having to order an item, and then have to return it if not what was promised.  Zojirushi Zutto 5-cup Drip Coffeemaker?  -  NO,  NO,  NO!!!!!!!