ID: B0002CA3QW-R34N1BXWZG6JK5-A204SX7N72IZFB
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: HAMILTON-BEACH-PROCTOR-SILEX-45224
ReviewerID: A204SX7N72IZFB
ReviewerName: D. Michel "jules"
Date: November 4, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: so far, so good!
Content:
I am overall very pleased with this coffee maker, and would buy it again based on initial observations.
Once I put the new machine through its initial requisite three cycles for cleaning, I made my first pot of coffee using Melita No. 4 paper filter and increasing the coffee measurements about 25% because it looked light to me. 
The brew was good and fast, but I think I would increase the grounds by 1/2 to get the depth of color and aroma I want.
Also, if one were to use a finer ground of coffee, (mine was regular grind) the brew would probably be darker.
Everything on the machine works the way the directions say, it is a great buy at the price, and I am happy with the small footprint and short height under the cabinet. Also it emits minimal steam from the top, so this is a nice plus.
Lastly, the complaints about having to "pre-heat" the carafe before brewing to make the coffee stay hot are silly; you have to wash the carafe between uses anyway, just leave it until right before you brew again - use really hot rinse water and you are good to go.
Like other reviewers, my only complaints are fairly minor:
the clock has no light and isn't visible in low light;
the base upon which the carafe sits is rather slippery, hard to seat the carafe neatly;
the travel mugs have lids that don't fully close - the drinking slot stays open all the time, making it easier to spill, and cools off faster;
the coffee maker requires filters, none are included, have to get them;
the interior of the carafe is a glass thermos, and therefore breakable.
[Knowing my husband, I'm immediately looking for a replacement carafe for when it breaks.]
I am wishing the travel mugs were more tightly-closable, and that the carafe were virtually unbreakable - stainless steel.
Otherwise a great, inexpensive machine that works terrific right out of the box.
It would be interesting to see if the "steel carafe" model of the same coffee maker is all steel or if it is also a glass-thermos interior.
I am shopping around for a similar shaped all steel carafe. Anyone know of any?