ID: B00006F2MI-R216WWLED0YUUH-AYGFPGFKAWOVM
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Grind-Brushed-Chrome
ReviewerID: AYGFPGFKAWOVM
ReviewerName: Bob Walter
Date: April 17, 2004
Helpful: 24 of 26
Rating: 5.0
Title: Not the most convenient, but a great cup of coffee
Content:
I have used a combination grind and brew coffee maker for years. My previous model was a Capresso that has a bean resevoir and brews with little difficulty. The problem with it was that it really didn't extract all the flavor from the beans.The Grind and Brew thermal from Cuisinart isn't as convenient, but it brews a wonderful cup of coffee. You do have to scoop the right amount of beans into the grinder, which is under the top lid, then you add water to the resevoir, also from the top. The built-in water level gauge is not easy to read, and the machine favors right-handed people. The brew basket uses a gold filter (included) or #4 paper basket filters. I have been using the gold filter. The coffee brews directly into a stainless steel thermal carafe.Cleanup is some work. The grinder always is wet inside after brewing, so it is necessary to remove it and wash it. The filter, if you use the gold one, must be washed too. Fortunately, Cuisinart has redesigned the Grind and Brew to make these jobs very easy. Parts are easy to remove and clean. The carafe is wide-mouthed, so cleaning is much easier than with narrow-mouthed carafes most of us have had in the past.Some of the disadvantages are actually good news. Since you manually measure beans into the grinder, you can easily control the strength of the coffee. Cuisinart has paid attention to the physics of making great coffee. There is a 2-4 cup button that makes sure the water is very hot from the first drop in the brewing basket. Most coffee makers send fairly cold water up in the beginning. When you make a small pot, there isn't enough hot water to properly extract flavor from the beans in other coffee makers.Cuisinart also did a good job with their &quot;shower head&quot; that sprays water into the brew basket. The coffee grounds are uniformly wet. Bottom line is that if you love good coffee, this pot brews it, even in as small an amount as 4 cups (don't try 2 cups, no coffee maker can really brew that little). Remember a &quot;cup&quot; is 6 ounces, and a typical mug holds 12 ounces of liquid. Cleanup takes about 2 minutes per pot. Not bad for this quality coffee.Buy good beans, keep the pot clean, and use the gold filter and you will be rewarded with a great cup of coffee. I am very happy with the Grind and Brew Thermal (DGB-600BC). The much more expensive Capresso version (usually around $199) makes a poor cup of coffee and the trade for a bit more convenience isn't worth it.