ID: B000EBA03M-R1YIT9LGTZE1JW-A183FIKYKTB2Y5
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Digital-Camera-18-180mm-f3-5-f6-3
ReviewerID: A183FIKYKTB2Y5
ReviewerName: A. White "creeative1"
Date: April 30, 2007
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: So far I love it!
Content:
Let me start off by saying that I love taking pictures but am by no means a professional.  I am the individual in my family who is always taking pictures and video and I absolutely love it.  I was previously a point and shoot user and have always owned Cannon Digital Cameras.  Canon Powershot A85 and most recently the Cannon Powershot S3.  We have an olympus point and shoot digital camera at work and it takes some good photos. 
Now what I like about this camera.. I love the large 2.5 display, I never got that with cannon.. althought the did have the rotating display which Iloved.   Actually this camera had been pretty user friendly for the most part.  I highly recommend contacting your local camera shop to see if they offer a class on how to use the camera.  It will be extremely helpful.  I also like the fact that you can do some editing right on the camera. 
If you are going to purchase this camera, be sure to purchase it with the lense kit.. If you try to purchase the same lenses separate you will end up spending upwards of $400.
If you are new to DSLR, here is a few things you should know.  First,  you will not be able to see your photos on your LCD as you would with your other digital cameras.  Second, you can't take video.  Also, go to the Olympus website, they have various manuals written about the camera and how to get the most out of it.. This was very helpful.
Overall, I think this is a camera you can grow with whether you are a beginner or a novice photographer.. 
UPDATE 5/2/07
I still love the camera; however, as with anything you can find a few flaws.  If you are in a extremely low light situation, the flash on the camera doesnt do well.  Purchasing the FL-36 Flash helped greatly and there are also some free olympus software upgrades that can be done.  Overall, I still feel it was the best value for the money.. 
6/20/2007
UPDATE
I have enrolled in photography class and I love this camera.  It may not be the top of the line but it is definitely a workhorse.  The battery life for taking pictures is awesome.  Some recommendations
1.  When purchasing a memory card, purchase the CF, it is the cheapest and the fasted.  The XD is ok, but you why spend the extra money
2.  Get no less than a 1G card the preferrence is 2G
3.  Forget hooking your camera up to your PC to download pictures, purchase a memory card reader.. don't drain your battery
 This camera has taken some great pictures and the two lens kit is awesome I have used the 14mm-145mm for some great macro shots in combination with the macro feature on the camera. 
Now here is one thing I don't like... the more I get into photgraphy and I learn about shutter speeds etc etc.. it would have been nice if Olympus had put the disply for reading this on top of the camera rather than having to look through the view finder.... but this is so small when you think of the overall vallue of this camera. 
Enjoy
7/1/07 Update
This camera is really good.  I must say that I am in a photography class where the majority of the people have Nikon or Cannon and My photographs are just as good if not better.  
One of the things I have come to absolutely love is the dual memory slots...  One of the things I don't like is that you can't  use a "cable release" with this camera, you have to use the remote control which has to be pointed at the front of the camera.  The remote is a must for portrait photgraphy and in situations like photographing the moon or fireworks so you can avoid camera shake.