ID: B0009GZANC-R1CWZFE0N3AXIR-A22WBN1QEUFSV8
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-Camera-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G
ReviewerID: A22WBN1QEUFSV8
ReviewerName: Allan Bedford "Author of The Unofficial LEGO ...
Date: April 15, 2006
Helpful: 15 of 17
Rating: 5.0
Title: More than good deal at current prices
Content:
OPINION
My decision to buy the D50 came only after several weeks of reading reviews and forum discussions and after looking at dozens of sample images. I looked carefully at the body and the kit lenses but in the end decided to buy a couple of different Nikkor lenses that weren't offered as part of any kit.  This was another carefully considered purchase and every potential buyer should spend some time figuring out whether they want just the body (and find other lenses) or will be happy with one of the kits that are available.
I can honestly say that the research was worth the time and effort. My D50 purchase was one that came with absolutely no 'buyer's remorse'. I'm thrilled with this camera and am just beginning to explore its potential. I find it to be rugged and solid feeling. Yet, the body fits perfectly in my hands.
While some users have commented that the single command dial (vs. the D70s w/ 2 dials) is a drawback, I actually find this to be a benefit. When you're quickly trying to change settings for that next shot I simply find it easier to have fewer controls to have to manipulate.
So far the pictures I've gotten with my D50 have been as good if not better than I'd expected. When things don't look so great it's usually my fault, not the camera. But with the capabilities that this device has I am already seeing an improvement in my skills and look forward to a lot more practice.
PROBLEMS
The door on the memory card slot is a bit tempermental. It has a very light locking mechanism that can (sometimes) pop open when you didn't really intend to open it.
The onboard menu system isn't bad, but possibly could have been better. It is bright and easy to read, but I sometimes find myself looking for something and just not finding it where I expected.
I mention the above issues only to point out that the D50 is not perfect. While I am extremely happy with my purchase there are always little things that could be improved.  But in the case of this camera I feel that list is pretty short.