ID: B000CRZCPO-R1AI5AL50NH5K8-A1C59MMJBA6ZXI
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-200mm-3-5-5-6G
ReviewerID: A1C59MMJBA6ZXI
ReviewerName: Tony C. Ho
Date: December 26, 2007
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Awesome camera and lens!
Content:
I've been using my Canon S50 for the last three years thinking that it was time for an upgrade. For me, the MOST important and hardest to get photos are usually the indoor ones (ie weddings or events). So I decided to spent a bit more on camera equipment to fulfill that requirement. Having absolutely little knowledge of SLR cameras (dont get intimidated by this), you should know that there is a Program mode where you can use this as a point and shoot camera. As you get used to it, you migrate more to the manual mode and take advantage of the unique capabilities of this camera. 
First, Nikon lenses are great! The pictures are clear and with VR, it really helps eliminate some blurred images from shaky hands. As you proceed to no-flash indoor photography, VR helps a lot (up to only a certain shutter speed before you need a tripod). Having a 18-200mm lens covers most of your everyday needs. For me, I bought a few other lenses to play with... It will become costly but the pictures are priceless. Paying extra for VR is well worth it. When you look for other lenses, you will see the price difference with or without VR. I REALLY would recommended spending the extra on VR especially when you are zooming in..
Second, the camera is VERY sturdy and quite heavy. So this is obviously not the most portable camera around. It is an SLR so what do you expect? 
Finally, four months after my D200 purchase, I have absolutely no regret of spending over 2300$ on this. So if you are new to SLR cams and debating whether to buy this or not AND portability is not an issue, I highly recommend that you go for it. I am sure that Canon offers a similar line of camera just as good, but I decided to try Nikon after using a Canon for so long.