ID: B00012XCZW-R3BNT8NWGB2JX7-A26ZLMPQ2350GM
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Bunn-NHB-Professional-Brewer-Black
ReviewerID: A26ZLMPQ2350GM
ReviewerName: Matthew Cummings
Date: June 5, 2006
Helpful: 28 of 28
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great coffee machine, multipurpose
Content:
I've never reviewed an Amazon item before, but will give it a shot because this coffee-maker is so great.
I do a lot of research before buying any home products, including televisions, audio equipment, and even my toaster.  I typically drink 2 cups of coffee in the morning, and 1-2 cups in the evening.  I was looking for a coffee maker that recreated the coffee-house experience, as most home brewers do not taste as good as a fresh cup from an industrial brewer.
After much thought and reading lots of reviews, I decided to try the Bunn NHB despite complaints of weak flavor, cool coffee, and a higher price than most brewers given the relative paucity of features.
After about 5 months, I love it.  My girlfriend loves it.  We can't drink coffee from other home brewing machines now.  We use Peet's Coffee Major Dickason blend primarily.  It is true that you need more grounds for this machine.  I use about 2/3 to 1 tablespoon of grounds per cup as labeled on the side of the decanter.  Realize that it takes about 2 "cups" by this scale to fill a regular coffee mug.  This machine brews quickly without over-extraction, so you trade grounds economy for flavor essentially.
As far as coffee heat, 200 degrees is hot enough for me, which the Bunn is preset to brew at.  12 degrees hotter and you have steam, right?  The warming plate works well and cleans up easily, made of ceramic and not metal. Keep in mind that after more than 20 minutes on the plate, the coffee will start to taste bitter.  So if you're the type to milk a pot for an hour or so, the stainless steel insulated one may be for you.  Since I drink two mugs worth myself, the 3-4 tablespoon for 4 cup ratio is great for me.  I wouldn't brew less than this at any given time, as the machine seems to have trouble brewing smaller volumes accurately.  To reiterate another frequently addressed point, if you brew less than 2x per week, add more water than you anticipate to need, as evaporation of preheated water will occur.  More than a week on vacation, and you should use the vacation mode switch discussed in other reviews.
A typical problem for some folks is overflow.  I have not experienced this as long as I use the taller Bunn brand filters, using up to 8 tablespoons of grounds with the high-flow 3-minute brewing spray-head.  The filters cost more than regular filters, but over a year this equals one frappacino, so I got over it.
An added perk is that you have an instant hot water source.  I like to switch it up sometimes and have French press coffee.  Of course you need a coarser grind for this, but you just pour the requisite amount of water in the top of this machine, and within a minute or two there's perfect temperature/volume water.  I've even made a cup-o-noodles successfully, for you college folks living in a dorm who stay up all night.
One more reminder.  There is no "on" or "make coffee" switch or button.  When you slide open the top of the machine, you are committed.  The instant you close the lid, hot water starts flowing.  Never close the lid without both the filter holder and pot in place.  By the way, clean-up is a breeze.  I love the removable filter holder; just dump grounds plus filter in the trash without dripping on your kitchen floor.  The whole thing cleans easily, and the black color doesn't show brown stains after long-time use.
Overall, a great machine if you want a great-tasting pot of coffee fast and you're willing to spend a little extra for it.