ID: B000AQSMPO-R18CUR5A4UL01O-AQ16K7GKXO4XH
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-B60-Special-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing
ReviewerID: AQ16K7GKXO4XH
ReviewerName: Henry Lee
Date: December 31, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Just what the Doctor Ordered. Clean and Convenient!
Content:
Tired of cleaning out the coffee pot and grinds? Tired of waiting 10-15 minutes for the coffee to brew? How about your guests ... are they tired of waiting or tired of being forced to conform to one brand/flavor of coffee? Then this is the answer.
SIMPLICITY
You literally pop in your k-cup, close the top and hit a button. Within 30-60 seconds your coffee is brewed and ready. Choose between 6, 8 and 10 ounce sizes. The only effort required from you aside from the button press and k-cup selection is to keep the water container filled, which couldn't be any easier with two options: open the lid and pour water in, or take the entire water tank with you to the tap.
NO MESS
If you are like me, you grow weary of cleaning our your coffee pot, filter tray and grinder. The Keurig machine gets rid of that part of the process. All brewing and filtering is self-contained within the k-cup and so all you do is toss the k-cup when you are done. As for as cleanliness goes, this is fantastic because other people aren't putting their hands all over your filter, grins or coffee pot.
GUESTS
Guests absolutely love this machine. You can offer them a variety of coffees or teas to choose from. Finally, you can allow your guests to have coffee whenever they feel like it (upon arrival, during a meal or after dessert) without having to go through the hassle of brewing a pot for everyone. Guests love picking out a brand/flavor. Some people like that "Jet Fuel" bold, other people like the decaf or flavored coffee. It's actually entertaining as well for the guests - some of them will try it just for the novelty of it.
DRAWBACKS
There are a few drawbacks, although none of them are major issues in my book.
First, using k-cups is a bit more expensive. This is the case with any single-serve type product, especially products designed for speed or convenience. Anyone buying this machine is probably willing to pay more for each cup of coffee. On the bright side, you aren't dumping out half a pot of coffee all the time or drinking old coffee.
Second, k-cups are not great for the environment because they are made from plastics and disposed of - one for each cup you make. Compared to regular coffee machines that simply use paper filters, this is a downside. I still find it worth my time and I would like to continue to press Keurig and other manufacturers to come up with a better environmentally-safe solution. Until then, this is the way to fly for me.