ID: B000HZ9CCA-R9FZIQ1S7408Q-A32L35X1VKFQST
Category: MP3Players
Product: SanDisk-Sansa-e280-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A32L35X1VKFQST
ReviewerName: abw
Date: May 3, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Only one complaint
Content:
I bought this late 2007, and so far I love it. I haven't had any problems (except for one, which I will talk about below). I like the color display that shows what is playing, and it makes it easy to find what you want to play. I also really like that you can plug it into your computer and easily just drag and drop new songs into the device through Windows Media Player for example.
My one and only complaint so far is the video. The package comes with a software to convert mpegs etc to the video format the device will accept. This software has yet to work. I also downloaded a new version from the Sandisk website, which also has yet to work. (Note: I have in fact not tried very hard to solve this problem since I bought this device primarily for music.) It would have been nice is the 280 accepted more formats (which other Sandisk players do, but they are more expensive.)
So, if your primary use is music, or photos, I would recommend this absolutely. For videos I would probably have to recommend a different player. (Unless you find a solution to the video format converter issue.)
Another tip, however, is the free one month Rhapsody membership that comes with it. I would not recommend purchasing trakcs through Rhapsody unless you are planning on continuing your membership. You will need to syncronize with the Rhapsody program every so often for any tracks purchased through them to work. If, however, you just want to borrow tracks through the Go membership, it is great. (not sure if that is the name right now, but they let you transfer tracks to your Sansa and listen to them all you want as long as you have that kind of memberhsip, and you never have to buy the tracks, BUT you do need to syncronize every so often AND keep that membership current.) 
So, in conclusion, a great player if your primary purpose is music and/or photos. :)