ID: B000AAWEJU-R1NLO2MNG42EWM-A1PTVFRBYRXLSI
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-Carina-Canister-Vacuum-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1PTVFRBYRXLSI
ReviewerName: J. Farrell
Date: March 27, 2007
Helpful: 21 of 22
Rating: 4.0
Title: Excellent Performance & Value, cord a little short
Content:
We decided to get this vacuum instead of a central vac system for our 3200 sq ft home.  The logic was that you would still need to lug around a hose and wand with the central vac, plus we already owned an upright Dyson.  Our plan was to use the Miele for the main level (100% hardwoods with oriental rugs) and the Dyson for the upstairs (50% hardwoods, 50% wall-to-wall carpet). Now, a year later, we're glad we bought this Miele.  It works extremely well on the hardwoods and with a simple flip of the switch on the attachment, very good on the rugs.  The variable motor speed was something I never thought we needed but is extremely useful.  On high, it's on par with the Dyson but the sound level is so much less.  The Dyson now reminds me of the shop vac in the garage.  Another huge plus is the size and weight.  It's so easy to take out and do a quick touch ups that using it daily, if needed, doesn't become a chore.
A few negatives.  #1 The self winding cord is surprisingly short.  I need to plug it into 4 outlets to do the entire 1st level (1400 sq ft).  With the Dyson, I just need to plug it in twice.  I guess the engineers could figure out how to make the cord longer and still self-retract reliably [shrug].
#2 The accessory wands attach to the wand which gets in the way when you vacuum under furniture, plus become added weight.  I'd rather it attach to the canister somehow. So, we just leave the attachments in the closet.
#3 The canister has 2 wand holders. One on the side of the canister for when you store it upright in a closet and another one for when you need to rest it temporarily so you don't have to place the wand on the floor.  This is a nice touch, but because this holder is in the back of the unit, it obstructs the power cord path when winding or unwinding.  So in the course of vacuuming, I still need to place the wand on the floor twice.  That's just a silly (oversight) design.
#4  The 2 buttons (power & cord rewind) on the canister are hard to shut off with your foot consistently because they are contoured with the canister's body lines.  Sometimes you get it on the first try, other times nothing happens, or if you really catch it on the edge, the canister ends up moving away from you.  Again, a little silly given how flawless other things were designed.
All in all, a very very good design.  I just wish I had 5 minutes with the design team.