ID: B0000YTYGM-R16157UGS7GDNT-A23K64VWYMLE95
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DTC-975BKN-Programmable-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A23K64VWYMLE95
ReviewerName: RowdyBird
Date: February 26, 2007
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Cuisinart DTC-975BKN
Content:
Two days ago, My "other" coffee pot DIED, just like the very same model before it, both only lasted at most 6 mos. Seems over the past several years no matter what brand I bought all DIED in a very very short time period. This time I was just fed up, in the long run I was spending a great deal of money replacing my coffee maker at least twice a year.
Very long ago I was sold on the good ole "Mr Coffee", we used them at work (as well at home) day in and day out for YEARS and they just kept on plugging away and so dependable, but something changed at some point in time and they began to be added to my trash within months.
SO, 2 days ago I decided to start some research for a new one and willing to spend more to get something reliable, one I liked the style and functions. I had a few functions I MUST have.
1st: For safety reasons I wanted to be certain it had "Auto Shut-Off" so I never had to worry when I was out doing errands (did I or didn't I).
2nd: I wanted a 12 cup (they seem to be harder to find).
3rd: I wanted Black in color & not too big.
4th: But NOT least, a GOOD solid long term warranty (unlike all those others that had such short warranty's that the machine always only Died shortly AFTER the Waranty ended.
SO, my decision after all the research led me to Cuisinart DTC-975BKN.
My opinion can only be based on this first day, but I'm feeling very good about my selection.
It has the most important features I wanted.
The price is a bit high, But after all the money I've put out on the cheaper models I've tossed (like at least 2 a year)& not to mention waking up ready for coffee only to see your machine has died once again & then all the hassel & time of going out just to buy another. SO the price does not seem that high at all.
As a first time user this AM of making my first Pot of Coffee, it was a no brainer, very user friendly, no mess, no fuss and faster making 12 cups than the old 10 cup ones, PLUS it "beeps" just to let me know it's done and I don't have to keep checking and waiting for my coffee, too cool.
Then after the beeps, then machine just shuts off (saving a bit on my Elect bill to boot).
This is also my first time having a machine with an insulted pot which is very attractive as well functions just as advertised, Fresh Hot Coffee (just like the first cup)for hours.
The whole machine is most attractive, slim & does not take up much counter space.
To top it all off, I VERY much like the 3 year warranty, I read it and am pleased with the repair or replace services offered, just make certain to staple that "proof of purchase" to the Instruction Manual and keep in your files.
The only reason I didn't give it a 5 star was that this is my first day of use.
I LOVE IT.