ID: B000NDMADO-R3EW0K3BZSJH56-A3GI96OCO0GIZU
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dyson-DC21-Stowaway-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A3GI96OCO0GIZU
ReviewerName: H.C.
Date: December 6, 2007
Helpful: 17 of 24
Rating: 1.0
Title: Engineering Marvel, Huh???
Content:
I was initially very impressed with the floor cleaning performance, well the suction part, of the Dyson canister when I first tried it.  Then the rest of the picture came into focus. I have already arranged for this engineering marvel to go back. 
Bottom line, and the deal breaker for me, was the fact that the hand-tools (brushes, crevice tool,upholstery nozzle)are a nightmare to use.  They can't be attached directly to the hose.  Instead, they stick out at the end of the huge clunker (heavy, thick and two feet long) that the telescoping wand reduces to.  So, to clean one's computer keyboard with a fine brush (sold for delicate dusting!), one has to stand back more than two feet (at minimum), holding an assembly that resembles an AK-47 assault rifle or a grenade launcher while trying to lightly pass the brush at the end over the keyboard.  One couldn't hold up this contraption long enough to clean miniblinds or drapery rods or fan blades, and forget attacking drapes with it.  
For me, the point of getting a canister is to make both floor and off-floor cleaning workable, and this arrangement was anything but.  As I had chosen Dyson because excellence in engineering design is what they advertise, I was so sure that I must have done something wrong that I called the Dyson organization on their help line.  That was a waste of time.  I had done everything correctly as it turns out, and they couldn't imagine why I didn't like it.  After speaking with a couple of rungs of supervisors, I gave up.  They just don't get it.
There are other problems with this engineering marvel:  Because of the way the hose is hooked to the canister, the unit tends to get caught on things as you try to pull it behind you.  It takes little detours rather than following.  And the hose itself is very prone to coiling and even kinking, so one has to constantly shuffle, twist, and turn around to unwind it.  Lastly, what is the point of vacuuming if not to pick up dust and hair--so I was horrified to see how easily the dust seems to coat and accumulate in the part of the machine that is not the catch bin.  Sure enough, there's a caution about vacuuming fine dust.  Most dust isn't the consistency of coffee grounds, for heavens sake!  Over continued use, I suspect the machine would have encountered problems over this issue.
The response of the Dyson folks translated to an unacceptable like-it-or-lump-it philosophy, so I won't be looking at their other products in this lifetime. Very disappointing.