ID: B00005IBX9-R3KPDPQSCAIRQ2-A2W62X238CEAU3
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1200-Central-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A2W62X238CEAU3
ReviewerName: K. D'Orazio
Date: February 21, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Machine, Insignificant Drawbacks
Content:
I am used to just going to Walmart, picking something, and hoping for the best. I just thought that coffee makers were standard, and it was me who was making bad coffee most of the time. I really like this coffee maker. It has a water filter, which I love, because my tap water tastes pretty bad and I had been using bottled water for coffee previously. The filter adds to the flavor of the coffee. There is an alert to let you know when the machine is done brewing, and also when the warming plate is shutting off. There are a lot of features for this machine. I haven't seen it yet, but apparently when the machine is dirty, a light is going to come on and tell me to run the cleaning cycle. In researching coffee machines, this one came up best, but each one had a couple of drawbacks. For this pot, it comes with a "gold tone" filter. I'm not a fan, and just use regular cone filters, but that's just me. I don't know if I'm paying extra for that or what. Oh well... not really a big con, but something to note. It's hard to get used to not having a flip-top carafe. This one you have to actually remove the lid to clean and fill quickly. It's not a big deal, either. The only other thing is that there is no outside gauge when you are pouring your water in, so you have to pour into the carafe the amount you want, and then pour into the machine. Again, not a big drawback. These are just little nitpicky things, overall a really great machine! I find that I'm buying more coffee now then with any previous coffee makers.
Ps- If you are finding your coffee to be too strong, put an extra cup of water in- it seems like a lot gets lost in the warm up.
Update May 15, 2008:
I still love this coffee maker! It's been great to me after a few months of use- no problems.