ID: B000RNG3LK-R3C1PJTGGAUL18-A5JHW8FBRN4OE
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV9420US-17-inch-Processor-Premium
ReviewerID: A5JHW8FBRN4OE
ReviewerName: Fritz
Date: August 1, 2007
Helpful: 13 of 14
Rating: 4.0
Title: Everything I needed in a portable package
Content:
I've been very happy with HP computers, the DV9420us is my second HP laptop and the 4yr old one is still going strong.  In addition I've been pleasantly surprised by how good their customer service is even though I hate the loss of US jobs.  The 9420 has a huge bright screen for those of us that need 3-4 windows going at the same time.  The keyboard is a nice size so I don't have to scrunch my hands together when typing long projects, and I like the number pad off to the side for quick spreadsheet work.  The keys also seem to be built a little sturdier than some other brands.  2GB of RAM is just fine for most things and seems to run the VISTA Memory Monster just fine.  Word to the wise, don't get less than 2GB of RAM if you're running Vista.  I wouldn't consider this a hardcore gaming computer at all (nor any laptop for that matter) but I can play some good games just the same.  Hard drive size is good at 240GB, multi-card reader is a great feature, and the AMD TL-64 chip seems to be pretty speedy but all that power runs awfully hot so you won't want to work with the computer on your lap for too long unless you're out of hot chocolate on a frosty winter day.  The outside of the computer looks very nice with the slick black finish but it is a fingerprint/smudge magnet.  Thank God good Ole HP threw in a small "computer napkin" AT NO EXTRA CHARGE just for that reason.  Those people think of everything!    The only con is the mouse pad.  The old style had a texture to it so your finger would slide smoothly, the 9420's pad is now smooth and gets a little sticky at times.  I'm also not a fan of the new mouse pad page scroller.  For some reason it doesn't seem to interact with webpages quite as well as their old one.  It appears to be a software issue or I just haven't figured it out yet.  All in all I'm very happy with the purchase, I feel I got a lot of computer at a relatively affordable price and that's saying something because I'm cheap.  I sure wish they would've given me more than just a trial version of Office2007, but that's ok, I'll just use the free OpenOffice software instead "HAHA! Take that Microsoft!".  For the record, my primary uses are school, business, and home entertainment.  Happy Shopping