ID: B000VDQ38E-R20JZRR92URYR4-A349DMQOKK75CE
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A349DMQOKK75CE
ReviewerName: steftigger
Date: April 30, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 2.0
Title: Wonderful Sunction, Impossible to Clean/Empty
Content:
I got the pet hair eraser because I figured that the Dyson animal must be a rip off given the price.  Got it home, put it together.  It was heavy, and looked like a huge monstrous creature from the movie "Alien" but it was partly self propelled which helped. 
I was thrilled with the job it did cleaning the carpet.  I have 4 cats and hair is clearly an issue.  Wonderful suction, very impressive performance.  I was ready to commit to keeping the heavy monstrosity when I went to empty it.  Here is the nightmare. 
The hair accumulates just inside the hole that leads to the suction cup.  The hair never makes it down into the lower cup which is removable.  It gets stuck around the cone in the top portion of the dirt cup, the part which is not entirely removable.  The instruction manual said "if" that happened (like it was going to be a RARE occurrence . .. not!) to remove the funnel.  So you have to remove the bottom cup, reach into the top portoin that doesn't come out, and uncrew and pull out this cone funnel thing.  With it out comes all the hair, and the dirt and dust that's gotten all enmeshed in the hair, falling all over the bottom of the vacuum, inside and around the knob, all over the place.  Then you get to spend a half hour trying to clean the vacuum itself, digging around the knob to get the fallen dirt out. 
It's too bad, really, because the suction is fabulous and the vacuum performance is very good.  But emptying it/cleaning it (for someone with pets, and thus hair -- which is after all what it's marketed for) is a complete nightmare.  Unacceptable.  I returned it. 
If Bissel can fix this, I would have no problem rebuying this huge heavy vacuum which performs extremely well.  But I am not dealing with the mess of emptying and cleaning it.  
Too too bad, I was all excited by the performance. Hey Bissell, fix it!