ID: B000GHLMI6-R3OSV4YCBDSWA0-A1YGIQ6LVMH90A
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Hamilton-Beach-47665-BrewStation-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1YGIQ6LVMH90A
ReviewerName: homeschooler
Date: December 31, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 2.0
Title: Inconvenient, annoying, and cheap
Content:
I'm very disappointed that Consumer Reports recommended this thing...what were they thinking?!  I should have trusted my gut and avoided the Hamilton Beach product, but this got good reviews on Amazon as well.  :(  I really liked the idea of dispensing piping hot coffee. I guess if you like the challenge of battling a bulky coffee maker just to get weak coffee, then this is the right machine for you!  I finally had to replace my Kitchenaid drip coffee maker and consulted Consumer Reports website to aid me in purchasing another.  Despite my remote location overseas, the BX carried this recommended model and it seemed better than the Cuisenart with a carafe (which my store only had in white).  Anyway, the coffee makers I've owned have all been about $100, so I was skeptical that it was only $50...and I was right, you get what you pay for.
  
While I do like that the coffee seems nice and hot and I liked the convenience of the the dispenser rather than a pot, the overall inconvenience outweighed that.  The most important flaw, and in the end, the final straw was that the machine was bulky and there is no easy way to pull it out from under the cabinet to fill it (nothing to grab but the whole machine!).  The very large lid opens at the top, and doesn't clear the cabinet above it, so (like many coffee makers) you have to slide it in and out -- assuming it's under a cabinet.  No big deal right?  Well, this one has rubber feet or something on the bottom, so it doesn't "slide", it skids.  You have to awkwardly, but ever so carefully, shove the bulky thing to the back of the counter while it is full of water BEFORE you've had your first cup of coffee.  Another valid complaint is that it is very difficult to tell when the coffee is almost gone; there a brewed coffe indicator on the front, but the condensation or whatnot prevented mine from being reliable once it got below 6 cups.  The inside of the tank gets filthy pretty quickly (especially if that burner scorches the last bit of coffee since you didn't know it was almost empty) and a pot and burner seems much easier to clean for whatever reason.
Now for the whining part...there are literally no bells or whistles (which I didn't realize I relied on so much).  There is no signal to tell you when the coffee is done brewing, or when it is going to shut off (nor a visible way to see how long it's been sitting, like my Kitchen Aid).  There are, however, warnings all over the place saying to only use 3/4 T coffee per cup to avoid overflow...so if you like full flavored or strong coffee (normally you use at least 1 T), you'd have to make less than 12 cups.  I just made 10 cups...not a problem.  But I guess that is misleading if you really do want to make 12 cups without it leaking.   While not a huge deal, the hour and minute button change the clock's time if you accidently press one when wiping down the machine (they could have easily avoided that by having a switch for clock and program).  I used this machine for a few months, but the bulkiness, difficult mobility, lack of features and fear of overflow/leaking left me annoyed. I gave mine away to the neighbor when we moved.
  
I will continue to search for the ideal coffee maker (the Kitchen Aid didn't really make hot enough coffee).