ID: B000BC2GGS-R1PECCPED7XN3O-AM7ULDOXMEVV
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Honeywell-HZ519-Digital-Profile-Comfort
ReviewerID: AM7ULDOXMEVV
ReviewerName: Randall S. Reihing "RandallS"
Date: October 31, 2007
Helpful: 14 of 14
Rating: 5.0
Title: Honeywell HZ 519 Review
Content:
This is an excellent heater. It is well balanced, will not tip over, is over three feet long but not very wide, is attractive, fits well against a wall and has an excellent, heavy duty, long white cord with stainless steel prongs on the plug that will never oxidize like brass does which can create electrical problems. It has no fan so it will never overheat when the fan bearings start to fail and the fan stops turning. It would be nice if it had one of those newer protective plugs like air conditioners and hair dryers use that cut the power if there is an electrical problem. It would also be a bonus if the LCD panel was lighted but it's not a big deal. The heater is a little over 3' long but is light and easy to carry. It's perfect for a small room, or any area, that could use a little supplemental heat from a very quiet source. The LCD readout indicates the room temperature and when you press a button, it indicates the temperature you have set for the room. Once the controls are set, whcih takes about 30 seconds, you simply turn the heater on, or off, by pressing one small button and the "On" light illuminates. The heater has a timer that can be preset by the operator. It appears to have a 10 hour limit and will then turn off so it can't be accidentally left on when you go away for the weekend. On the other hand, that means it can't be used for emergency backup heat to prevent water pipe freezing, unless of course we have not determined how to bypass the preset time limit. It will not give you the instant heat that a fan forced heater will but it does provide a very nice steady heat flow that will warm an area or small room. It's also easy to clean. You need to be careful not to let anything like a drapery or anything else cover, or lay on, the top of the heater, which is true of any small heater, and also not to dent the charcoal colored screen along the top, which is pretty sturday and will not dent easily. The heater will perform perfectly well if the screen is damaged. It's there to prevent contact with the rod that is the heating element but the appearance of a dented top is not attractive. I like this heater a lot, we have used it every weekend and evening since early October with no problems and intend to purchase a second one and maybe a third one. If the length is not a problem, and you don't need a fan, it's the best small heater I have used in 25 years of using small, portable, 1500 watt electric heaters for occasional spot heating.