ID: B000I1ZWRW-R3B6M0KSEGKKR8-A29BIVOOM76WYF
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-10-1MP-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A29BIVOOM76WYF
ReviewerName: S. McClaren "McPhoto"
Date: August 23, 2007
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Can't beat it!
Content:
I've got 30 years experience as a professional travel and fashion photographer and photography instructor. 10 yrs ago I retired and sold all of my Nikon 35mm SLR equipment for an Olympus C-3030 digital point & shoot that allowed me to override the exposure settings. I loved the picture quality of the camera but missed the SLR capabilities and hated the 'lag time' between pushing the shutter button and taking the picture. Too many action shots were missed. (I retired to taking action shots of my newborn granddaughter)
This camera is EVERYTHING you could ever need. The 10MP lets me take macro shots as close as 15" (using the new Tamron 18-250mm lens) and blow them up to 20"x30" posters that are good enough to display in exhibition or to sell! 
The shutter is instantanous and the exposure meter is astounding. I'm a little too old fashioned to enjoy all of the focusing targets but I just set the target for the series I'm shooting (usually weighted towards a rule of thirds arena) and it performs flawlessly.
If you want a nobrainer this is your camera. If you want to control and change anything and everything this is your camera. With my experience I've yet to find anything it wouldn't do, commercially or privately.
To see what the Canon XTi/Tamron 18-250 lens combination can do, go to the Tamron 18-250 for Canon page and look at the 'customer picture uploads'. I put 5 lowlite and macro shots there.
Although I would NEVER RECOMMEND WHAT I'M ABOUT TO SAY, IT NEVER THE LESS HAPPENED AND I THINK I SHOULD REPORT IT. After a floral shoot at the Lady Bird Johnson Wildflower Center near Austin, Tx. (102 degree heat) I lazily laid the camera on the floor of the backseat of the car and took off. On the freeway back into town I had to slam on the brakes. The cola cooler on the seat fell forward and a half quart of water (thawed ice)spilled directly onto the floor and camera. I grabbed the XTi and immediately took out the card and battery, then rubbed everything dry. I then waited until morning allowing EVERYTHING to dry out. Water and cameras aren't fatal, but water and electronics are, so LET IT DRY BEFORE TURNING IT ON! I haven't missed a shot. Now again, it's not recommended but it is pretty darn impressive!