ID: B00005IBX9-R35GCZP0BU2J4-ADWL6PX6QM3ZJ
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1200-Central-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: ADWL6PX6QM3ZJ
ReviewerName: Anonymous Shopper
Date: February 4, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good, hot coffee
Content:
I just received this coffee maker today, so this review is going to concentrate on unpacking and first-time operation:
Unpacking:  I followed the instructions in the manual.  I had some difficulty removing the cardboard insert between the carafe and the brew unit, afraid of using too much force, but with a side-to-side motion I got it out.  The last part of the instructions didn't make sense -- "Lift the coffee maker off the remaining two inserts..."  There were no "remaining two inserts", and if there were, why would I lift the coffee maker off of them, rather than lift the inserts off the coffee maker?
Size:  I expected to the unit to be huge, and it is.  It is about 2 inches taller than my old 12-cup unit that it is replacing.  I don't operate my coffee makers under cabinets because I don't want the cabinets to rot or warp from constant exposure to steam and humidity, so I didn't consider that to be a problem.  But I'm 5'5", and I had to stand on my tippy-toes to fill the reservoir.  I didn't mind not being able to see the indicator for 4 cups because I use a different method to measure the water (not the carafe, which I don't sanitize every day).  But I foresee issues when I'm doing this half-asleep.   
Grinds filter:  This was a little confusing to me.  When I opened the lid, I saw what appeared to be a gold-toned basket.  It has a basket-styled handle, after all.  It seemed to fit inside a non-removable black holder, due to what appeared to be a nut and screw visible in the bottom. It turns out the "basket" is actually the permanent gold-tone filter, and the black "non removable holder" is indeed removable with the tab facing towards the front; the screw and nut at the bottom comes out too, and it takes a little force to remove this black filter basket. It took me going to different web sites that sell parts to this coffee maker to figure this out.  I saw pictures of the black cone-shaped unit with the screw in the bottom and saw that this part was called "filter basket".  So I then tried once again to remove it, this time with a little more force, and was surprised that it did indeed come out, along with some sensitive-looking apparatus (a spring and other parts).  So if that is the filter basket, what I thought was the filter basket must be a permanent gold-tone filter that I can use in lieu of a paper filter.  
Paper filter option: Someone mentioned in another discussion thread that one can use regular basket-style paper filters instead of the #4 cone ones; I tried that, since I have so many of those filters left over from my other coffee maker, and it worked!  I guess one just has to be careful that all the pleated edges of the filter are pressed back to prevent the sides from bending down towards the center during operation.  I have had that happen even with basket-style machines designed to use that type of filter, and it is a disaster.  So try this option with caution.
Charcoal filter:  Definitely follow the instructions; soaking the filter for 15 min. left some gray residue in the water.  Yuck!  So that step is necessary. I do not know whether the filter goes into the filter-holder unit with the hard edge up or down.  I placed mine down.  Also, the manual didn't specify which way the charcoal holder was supposed to be placed in the unit, back or front; it seems to slide in either way.
Carafe:  Someone mentioned here in a review that the carafe does not have a flip-top lid, but I guess I missed it.  I'm a little shocked that my $19 coffee maker had a flip-top lid but this one doesn't.  The lid must come all the way off, and it is held in place by plastic rivets which could possibly wear down with constant on-off-on use, it seems.
Programming:  Easy; I like the control panel and found it quite easy to navigate, once I figured out I had to press and hold the hour/minute buttons for 2 seconds to activate the clock adjustment feature.   By the way, the LED clock is NOT back-lit. It does not light up and cannot be read in the dark.
Smell:  I brewed the first batch using just plain water.  The manual advises doing this once.  Whew, it sure did smell...I guess lemon juice is a good description, but this smell is bad, and I don't mind lemon juice so much.   So I did it again with plain water.  Better, but still some smell.  So I'm doing it now a third time.  The other reviewers were not exaggerating; this unit needs a good flushing, over and over, before you can consider the output drinkable.
Ready signal:  Wow!  It's nice.  I've never had one before, and I have been prone to forget my fresh-brewed coffee until it was burned.  The beep is pleasant, not too loud, and very helpful.
First cup of coffee:   I used about 14 oz. of water to make 12 oz. of coffee, and that seems to be just about right.  I ended up using a measuring cup with a spout, and I think I'll continue using that method to fill the reservoir.  I flipped the switch and pressed the 1-4  cups button.  The brewing was just as fast as my old coffee maker, but with my old coffee maker I normally had to leave the coffee on the warming plate a few minutes to get hot coffee (bad, I know).  But I decided to try this as soon as I heard the signal.  HOT!  OK, so now I can get my coffee quicker.    Taste?  Good and strong.  Next time I might even be able to use fewer coffee grinds, but I can easily get used to this strength.  It is very good!  
Overall, at this moment I'm very happy with this coffee maker.
P.S.  I did not buy this here; I purchased it at a local home-products chain store with three B's in the name, you know, the one that issues 20% coupons off any single item?  In addition to the slight price advantage (with the 20% coupon) I wanted to be able to exchange it quickly if the need arose, taking into account all the negative reviews.  Fortunately it appears I won't have to do that.