ID: B00006JT7T-R2LJ0WK8U87Y6L-A2UZJX6VDN4U9P
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Bionaire-BCH4138-U-Digital-Ceramic-Galileo
ReviewerID: A2UZJX6VDN4U9P
ReviewerName: Amos D. Meyers "Donovan"
Date: April 9, 2003
Helpful: 139 of 141
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great little heater
Content:
I've had this heater a few weeks now, and I'm very pleased. I wanted to be able to heat up the bathroom without getting out of bed, so I needed either a timer or a remote. This one has both.All the features are very cool, and work mostly as described. I'd like to share what I learned after I got it.I haven't had any problems syncing the remote like the other reviewer. I plugged in the heater and put the batteries in the remote, and followed the instructions to press one button, and off it went.It heats well, bringing up the temperature of my bathroom very quickly.I set the remote on top of my home thermostat for a day to test the thermometer, and it was off by one degree. Perfectly acceptable for me. The remote shows the room temperature at all times, even when the heater is off. It has a backlight, which turns on for about ten seconds whenever a key is pressed. After a minute of inactivity, the remote locks itself, to prevent accidental keypresses. To unlock it you hold the mode button for two seconds.Something not mentioned in the description is the heat settings: Low is 1200W and High is 1500W.Note that you can turn the heater on without the remote, but only to constant Low or High, not to an Auto (thermostat) setting.A minor disappointment was the timer function. From the description I was hoping to set a timer so that the heater would turn on every morning at a certain time. Instead, you can only program it to turn on in a certain number of hours, one time. So, if I know the next morning will be cold, I set it the night before, but I have to do it each night. This is probably fine for most people. BTW, when it turns itself on in timer mode, it runs for two hours on High, with a setting of 72F. Apparently you can't change this. It also has a timer to turn itself off after a number of hours, like the Sleep Timer setting on a clock radio.One really minor surprise was the depth of the unit -- it's not as flat as it looks. From the pictures, you can't tell that the fan intake sticks out a few inches on the back. This was not at all a problem for me, just a surprise. The whole unit is still very compact, maybe the size of a soccer ball. It's also very lightweight; the outer body is all plastic. Mine's gray instead of the white in the picture. The weird orange thing in the middle vent in the picture must be some sort of sensor; mine has it too.A pleasant surprise is the cool-down feature in Auto (thermostat) mode. When the room temperature has reached your setting, the heater of course turns off. But it seems to shut off the heating elements and just run the fan for maybe a minute, to flush out any residual heat. When I had more primitive heaters I'd do this manually, to cool down the heater and to get all the heat I'd paid for. This one does it automatically.The only problem I've had is that sometimes on High it shuts itself down. I believe this is because I have it in a confined space and close to two walls, and it thinks it's overheating. I have not had this problem on Low, and I'm sure I wouldn't have it at all if I moved it into a more open space.In case you're worried about wireless problems, I have 900MHz and 2.4GHz cordless phones, an X10 video sender, an 802.11g wireless network, RF ceiling fan remotes, an RF Dish remote, and other RF products, and I haven't had any issues with the heater and remote.Oh yeah, and it's really quiet, probably because the fan isn't very powerful. If it's around a corner or there's something else going on, I don't notice that it's running. Since the fan is weak, it doesn't blow heat at you very far, but it still moves air and heat fine. It probably projects heat a foot or two straight out.