ID: B000FFWGN4-RFKQ0TA29JRH9-A2J0D8EHQBF4KM
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-Lift-2dOff-Revolution-Pet-37602
ReviewerID: A2J0D8EHQBF4KM
ReviewerName: ***MATT***
Date: May 2, 2007
Helpful: 13 of 16
Rating: 3.0
Title: Nice concept, but average cleaning ability.
Content:
Pros: 
1) Lift-Off feature is convenient.
2) Attachments are all useful.
3) Bag-less.
4) Light does aid in cleaning.
5) Height adjustment for rugs.
6) Hepa filter.
7) Decent cord length.
8) On/Off switch for brush.
Cons
1) Short hose limits cleaning tough spots with ease.
2) Going from the main vacuum to the hose could have been thought out better.
3) Has a belt and hepa filter which will need to be replaced every so often.
4) A retractable chord would help eliminate tangling.
5) On/Off switch is not on the handle.
6) Suction
Overall:
I really like the overall design but 2 things would prevent me from buying this again. The short hose limits the ease of cleaning hard to reach spots like ceilings and stairs. Of course the lift-off feature aids in doing this though. My main gripe however is it's average, to below-average suction. On a hardwood floor, multiple passes are required to pick up small grains of sand or cat litter. Sometimes pieces of litter won't be picked up at all unless you detach the hose and use the hose itself to pick up the granules. Also, you can shake out an area rug after it's been vacuumed and see what this vacuum misses. Unfortunately, it misses quite a bit. I should also mention that I clean out the vacuum very often and it doesn't improve the suction all that much.
This vacuum will clean your house with a bit of extra effort, however it's average suction makes it nothing more than an average vacuum. Next time- the Dyson for me.
*Update 3/16/08* Shortly after I bought this vacuum, I came across a deal on woot for a Dyson $250 DC14 refurb. I went for it, and am glad that I did. Long story short, the Dyson is a much better vacuum. Longer hose, better suction, *much more* easy to empty, and the transition from main vacuum to hose is quick and easy. The cleaning process also takes less time due to the better suction, and seems to also clean the air as you clean the house. It was definitely worth the $80 more.