ID: B00021RFY6-RQD458CDY41UK-A24J2Y1O22JYZX
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Factory-Reconditioned-Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Coffeemaker-Brushed
ReviewerID: A24J2Y1O22JYZX
ReviewerName: Chris Boylan "MrBoylan"
Date: October 14, 2007
Helpful: 11 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: Worth the effort
Content:
As an avid coffee lover, I purchased this after seeing it at a friend's house.  I love the smell of freshly ground coffee and the taste of coffee made in the Cuisinart.  Its thermal carafe keeps the coffee hot and full of flavor for well over an hour, without using a heating element which can spoil the taste of coffee in 15 minutes or less.
I have owned the refurbished unit for about 4 months now, and have never experienced a problem with it opening or spilling coffee during the brew cycle (something which some earlier reviewers mentioned).  I can only assume that there were some units that had this problem earlier and Cuisinart has since corrected the design.  The refurbished unit did smell faintly like coffee right out of the box (it had been used at least once)but a couple of cycles with plain water and a thorough cleaning of the carafe and all removable parts took care of that.  
As I intimated above, the coffee made on the Cuisinart has a robust, fresh flavor, which really lets the individual characteristics of various brands of coffee beans stand out.  It offers a "1 to 4 cup" setting which pre-heats the water so that a small pot will be just as enjoyable as a full one.  And if you happen to have some pre-ground coffee, you can bypass the automatic grinder and still get excellent results.  But this coffee nirvana does come at a cost... maintenance.
There are 4 removable parts that must be cleaned after each use, the grinder and grinder cover, basket and basket cover (plus the optional gold-colored reusable metal filter should you choose to buy one of these - it's not included with the refurbished model).  The ground coffee gets into the nooks and crannies of these parts, so it can take a couple of minutes with a sprayer to get them clean.  But they can also be cleaned in a dishwasher (top rack only), at least occasionally, so you can just pop them in overnight if hand-washing is too much trouble.
Oh, and for new buyers, here's a tip: if you accidentally hit the "on/off" button while cleaning the unit and can't get it to stop beeping, this occurs when the grinder is not in place.  Simply depress the little white button inside the grinder compartment with a fork tine, or temporarily replace the grinder and cover and the beeping will stop.  We spent a few minutes of frustration unplugging and plugging the unit in until we found the culprit.  
Even with the slight extra work of cleaning and maintenance, I'm rating this 5 stars as it's the best coffee maker I've owned to date and worth the effort.