ID: B000TKDQ5C-R1VUKL1OC649M0-A1ZSF5CJ0A4CIO
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Lasko-754200-Ceramic-Adjustable-Thermostat
ReviewerID: A1ZSF5CJ0A4CIO
ReviewerName: Paw Print
Date: December 16, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great little heater; works much better than expected
Content:
Got 2 of these for my 2 'coldest' rooms so I can lower the thermostat during the day and use these instead.(I would never use any space heater at night when I am unconscious and not able to keep an eye on them).
They are small but powerful with 2 heat settings, a 'fan only' function, and a thermostat dial with 11 settings. It has an automatic 'overheat' kill switch, shutting the appliance off if it begins to overheat (but I've not experienced that to date). While the instructions caution one about the ceramic exterior getting hot, I have not experienced that even though I've been watching (and feeling) for it.  This unit measures 8.5" high, 6" wide and 4.5" in depth (smaller than 2 boxes of tissues stacked upright)and is pleasing to the eye. Easy to use, one can turn it on and set it to run as long as desired, or use the thermostat setting for it to come on/turn off as the area warms to your settings. Easy to set the thermostat function: turn unit on full blast until the room/area warms to your satisfaction, then slowly turn the thermostat dial down until the unit stops running. After that, it will turn on/off as the room cools/warms per your setting. To reset to a different therm. setting, simply let unit cool completely (unplug for about 10 minutes) and you can reset as before. A small, unobtrusive red 'on' light peeks at you from the center front top of the unit so one always knows it is plugged in. They require a 120 outlet and instructions caution NOT to use surge suppresors, power strips or extension cords for its operation. 
I've used these in the cellar while I'm doing laundry/ironing (unfinished cellar is cold and damp in the winter months), and aside from keeping me from getting chilled, I've noticed it helps to dry the clothes on the cellar lines & drying racks also.
It is intended for use on the floor, not on furniture. This may be an issue for those with young children or pets, but it is easily placed behind an open bottomed chair, area table with legs, beneath a coffee table, etc. Right now, one is beneath my kitchen table with the chairs in front of it as the 6 dogs go in/out the back door all day/night long. I no longer have to walk into a freezing kitchen because I've had to open the back door so often. This little powerhouse of a unit kicks on as soon as the cold air hits the floor and runs until the kitchen is warm again and it is only on the 2nd setting! There are 9 higher settings from which to choose. While it isn't completely silent in operation, it isn't loud either. A normal hum similar to a small fan on very low setting. My stove hood fan on "low"  makes more noise than this unit as does a kettle of water almost reaching its boiling point.
I like these so much, I'm back for a few more for my sister. Her 3rd floor apartment is in a historically-old multi-family dwelling with poor insulation. She is always cold, always catching colds and her heating bills are astronomical trying to keep the apartment warm. I think she's going to love these as well as I do as she can move them to any room she is in at the time without having to raise the heat in the entire apartment.
Can't go wrong with these, esp. this price!
Edit: Super Bowl Sunday, 2/7/10 - wanted to see if one of these would warm the entranceway as hubby's guests come in/out during the game today as we leave the beverages outside stuffed in the snow to keep them really, really cold. I didn't use an extension cord, but for the area I wanted to place the heater, I did try a surge suppressor. Several times. I say 'several times' because each time I turned the heater on, the circuit breakers for that entire side of the house triggered. So I thought to myself "Self, maybe it is this particular heater. Try one of the other 2 I have in other rooms..." Ok, so I thought it was a good idea at the time...but it wasn't. Each heater in succession triggered the circuit breakers. I guess the instructions meant what they said. Use this heater only directly connected to the actual outlet! Whew -glad I found this out BEFORE the game! I'd probably be relegated to the back yard and the dog house had I blown the circuit breakers during the game....:)