ID: B0007Y7976-RDDCKZ0LMGRVN-A3C9ZUZE9OLEEM
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-White-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A3C9ZUZE9OLEEM
ReviewerName: Weather Warden &#60;3
Date: July 17, 2006
Helpful: 8 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: I love my iPod!
Content:
I used to own a 1GB iPod Shuffle, but I recently got a black 2GB iPod Nano for my 19th birthday. After having a Shuffle, the Nano is a BIG improvement.
Pros and cons of the Nano: (in my opinion)
Pros:
01. The screen - after having a Shuffle with no screen, now having one is great. It makes accessing my music so much easier. And it's a colour screen, so everything looks cool.
02. The capacity - I know there's a 4GB version but I got this for a gift, so I didn't get to choose the size. I have over 1000 songs on my computer only listen to like 500, so this size is perfect. Again, after having a Shuffle the upgrade is great.
03. The size - of course. This thing is as light as a feather and just as thin.
04. The fact that it charges through the computer - you don't need a dock to charge it, it plugs into a USB port. Very easy for me.
05. The sound is crisp and clear - I'm still using the same earphones as I used with my Shuffle (I gave the new earphones and the Shuffle to my Mum), and it sounds as good as ever.
06. All the little extras - apart from the music, you can store photos, play games, have contacts, a clock and various other things.
Cons:
01. The black version of the Nano gets smudged VERY easily. I've only had it for less then a week and already there is fingerprints all over it.
02. The fact that the battery slowly drains - you can't actually turn a Nano off. You just put it to sleep and the battery very slowly drains. This is going to annoy me as I sometimes don't use my iPod for weeks and then I'll go to turn it on and the battery is flat.
The cons are just trivalities - as I'm going to buy some covers and it only takes three hours to charge the Nano they don't really bother me.
It comes packaged with a CD-ROM with iTunes on it (I already had it), earphones, little buds for the earphones, a small instruction booklet and Apple stickers.
Overall, the Nano is a nifty little piece of technology that I'm glad I own. I love listening to music while I'm sitting on the bus, so to have the Nano and 500 songs of my collection at my fingertips is perfect. 5 stars.