ID: B000GTR2F6-R2FS0NP3U3ONHL-AFMCOO5V53YAV
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Platinum-Single-Cup-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: AFMCOO5V53YAV
ReviewerName: Guy from Ohio
Date: January 9, 2007
Helpful: 25 of 25
Rating: 4.0
Title: A great system with just a liiiiitle farther to go.
Content:
First off, my wife was against this product when I bought it.  Mainly due to the price.  However having an instant hot water machine around (instant soup, oatmeal, water for her tea bags) has won her over handily.
As far as the coffee maker goes, it may be too good.  Seriously.  I can actually taste slight differences between the individual K-cups of the same variety.  The first batch of Heifer blend I got was absolutely delicious.  This latest batch less so.  That's where I see this product has room to grow.  Consistency of coffee packaged in the K-cup.  I do however see the challenge of blending several hundreds of pounds of beans together and then trying to get the same ratio in little Tablespoon sized cups. 
I've tried quite a few varieties of coffee now and would like to share my favorites.  Just so you know, I hate burned and coffee that's so thick you can chew it.  The darker the roast the less caffeine in the bean so a "stiff" cup of coffee won't do as much as a light blend to pick you up.  My favorites have a wonderful flavor that lingers after you finish the cup so much so that I drive by starbucks and am not even tempted to pull over.  This was one of the things I was hoping to accomplish by purchasing this maker, to actually pay off the machine by not going to Starbucks or Carribou Coffee so much.  It's working.
Green Mountain's Heifer Hope Blend, Diedrich's Colombia blend, and Timothy's Decaf Columbian  are my favorites.  Wonderful sweet flavors, with a chocolaty aftertaste that linger long after you've finished your last sip.  
In contrast I was disappointed in the K-cup offerings for Chai.  I prefer Stash brand chai or Starbuck's Chai.  Both brands offered here were pale imitators.  Here's an instance to just use the hot water function and brew your own.
The brew pump is whisper quiet, but the pump that fills the hot water tank from the reservoir is louder than I hoped for. It makes a buzzing sound.  (Ever thought of using the same part for both functions????)
As for the cups a little quick surgery shows that it is a plastic cup with a little filter liner that stops about half the way down the cup, filled with coffee, then sealed with foil.  
Highs:
Wonderful coffee a cup at a time.
Quick and convenient.
Lots of brand choices with more on the horizon.
Less trips to expensive coffee houses!
Lows:
"Buzzing" priming pump
Need to tighten up consistency of K-cups a little
Chai offerings are weak.