ID: B00008UI0R-RC2LH8GWM3WSY-A2HVMLCH7XB2UC
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A2HVMLCH7XB2UC
ReviewerName: Lynda M. Coles
Date: July 6, 2005
Helpful: 30 of 37
Rating: 4.0
Title: Vacuums good - but awkward to use
Content:
This was my first cannister vac after many years of uprights...I chose a cannister this time because we have a lot of hardwood floors and I wanted something that would clean everything (carpets, upholstery, stairs, curtains, wood floors) without having to continually pull out hoses etc.  I was disappointed...although it makes an excellent job of cleaning, I find it very awkward and bulky to use.  It won't just pull over it's own cord - you have to bend down and lift it, and it doesn't glide well over my carpets - you have to lug it around.  The brush head is bulky and heavy and I can't control it very well, so it bangs into my furniture legs.  The cord isn't long enough to allow it to do all the way up the stairs, and it's very heavy to carry in one hand while you vacuum the stairs.  The brush head & pole fall down very easily while it is standing - smashing into my furniture and breaking glasses & china. The tools are advertised as being 'on board' but the tool I use the most - the powered hand tool - does not store anywhere (I solved this problem by sewing a fabric bag that attaches to the handle to carry the tool).  It could just be that I'm not used to handling a cannister - but I've had this thing now for several months, and it's not getting any easier to use.  Consequently it only comes out once every couple of weeks for deep cleaning, and I do my daily vacuuming with my wonderful Dirt Devil Dynamite.
It's probably a great vacuum if you are used to cannisters...
Update - Sept 2006.  Well, it wasn't long before this vacuum got relegated to 'upstairs use only' (I only vacuum upstairs 2-3 times a week, as opposed to daily vacuuming downstairs).  I bought a Dyson for downstairs - I owned a Dyson many years ago when I lived in England and loved it - but was put off by the high price when they finally came out in the USA.  Several months ago I finally took the plunge and bought one (and I'm very happy with it!).  Unfortunately, I still hated using the Hoover so much that most of the time I just took the Dyson upstairs anyway.  I still think that most of my problems are because I can't get used to using a cannister vacuum, so don't let my review put you off if a cannister is what you want - this machine really does a great job of vacuuming, it's just that I personally find it really awkward to use.