ID: B0002XQJFA-R1Z285XOQH6RQS-A3V10TJNFQM3ZG
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Camera-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A3V10TJNFQM3ZG
ReviewerName: moofahoof "moofahoof"
Date: November 18, 2004
Helpful: 55 of 56
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very nicely designed camera - fun to use.
Content:
I purchased the Canon 20D package with the stock 18-55mm zoom lens about three weeks ago.  Since then, I have taken several hundred pictures and am very happy with the camera - highly recommended if you can justify the price.  I've broken this review up into sections due to its length. 
1.  Lens 
a.  18-55 mm stock lens
The lens isn't great, but on the other hand, it's not bad.  On the pro side, it's lightweight, cheap, small, and seems to focus fairly quickly.  The only bad thing about the lens is that it produces slightly soft pictures, but if you won't be blowing the pictures up too large, you probably won't notice.
b.  17-85 mm USM IS lens
Being obsessed with quality, after having the camera for about a week, I purchased (also on Amazon) the Canon 17-85 mm USM IS (Image Stabilized) zoom lens.  I've been very happy with this lens and would recommend it if you can afford it.  The IS is quite impressive - it really works.  This lens isn't perfect either, but it seems noticeably better than the 18-55 (and only six times as expensive!!).
2.  Compact Flash
I'd recommend that you purchase a SanDisk Ultra II 1 GB compact flash card with it - these are sold here on Amazon.  This card provides about 5 MB per second write speed which is significantly better than many of the cheaper cards - there are some websites on the net which review cards (and even one which has tested them all in a Canon 20D) - it's worth looking into.
3.  Battery
The battery life has been very good for me so far - the specs say that you can take about 1000 pictures with flash on half of them, and I don't doubt that (although I haven't pushed it that far yet).  The charger is also nice and compact (easy to travel with) and charges the batteries in about an hour and a half (fast!).
4.  Design
This camera is fun to take pictures with!  Through the lens composing allows precise control of depth of field, focus, and cropping - it's also much easier to use in full sunlight as compared to a point and shoot digicam.  It operates much like a film SLR in that you set most of the settings on the top LCD panel, compose through the viewfinder, etc., but it also adds the color LCD screen to view the pictures you've just taken.  The other thing I really like about this over a film SLR is the ability to set the ISO and white balance on the fly.  With film, you'd have to load a different roll of film for different lighting conditions or ISO - now it's the simple twist of a dial.  While these features are available on most consumer point and shoot digital cameras, they're generally much harder to get to through the menu system.  One great advantage of this camera is that it has so *many* buttons and dials - it's very easy to get to most frequently used functions without wading through extensive menus.  They're also very ergonomically placed so I can switch most settings I care about while looking through the viewfinder just by feel.
Another nice pro is the backlit top LCD panel which makes night shooting easy.
5.  Bad Points
Hmm..  Not much I can think of that I don't like about it.  My camera came with a 'starter quantity of dust' (quoted from some other website) on the imaging chip - but I was able to blast it off with a rubber bulb.  Be aware that digital SLR's tend to gather dust on the chip - especially if you change lenses a lot - but this is nothing against Canon - it happens on them all.
It's a shame that it doesn't show you the current ISO setting in the viewfinder (or on the top panel unless you hit a button).  Several times I've left it at ISO 1600 by accident when I didn't really need that speed.
It's a little heavy, but I find that I actually like the weight - makes it feel more solid.
I wish it had an IR receiver so you could use an infra-red remote with it - but alas - it doesn't (even though the Digital Rebel does!).  I had to buy the Canon RS-80N3 wired remote (which works well).
7.  Conclusion
An awesome camera overall - definitely go for it if you can afford it!  I still kept my old compact digicam as a backup for cases when I don't want to carry an SLR, but in general, I'll use it 95% of the time.  Much more enjoyable to take pictures with than a standard digicam - try it - you'll like it.