ID: B00008UI0R-R2RZLCQHKRRINI-AI39IFGHJ0JLW
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: AI39IFGHJ0JLW
ReviewerName: Julie P. Thomas
Date: March 22, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 2.0
Title: Wish I had seen an accurate review before I wasted my money!!
Content:
The saying is true..."You get what you pay for".  Yes, this vacuum is not super expensive and there is a reason for that! I read all of the reviews and hoped this vacuum would work well for me and instead, I feel like I wasted my money.  In the effort to give full disclosure, I will admit that before this vacuum I had never had a "bagless" vacuum and now I will never buy another one!  This canister has to be emptied after every use.  Yes, I do have a large house and four kids but no pets and with my other canisters, I changed the bags about once every other month.  So, having to dump this vacuum almost daily is a GROSS pain in my rear!  Sure, you can find the missing Barbie shoe or Lego piece easier but you also send up a cloud of dust when you empty it into the kitchen trash can and then you get to start the GROSS, time consuming, seemingly never ending job of trying to clean the filter that is in with the dust and dirt you have vacuumed up.  Yes, I did order and extra filter because it too seems to need to be cleaned daily. And,yes...you can wash the filter in the sink and rinse it for about five-fifty  minutes to get some of the dirt out but then it has to dry overnight and it still doesn't look or seem clean.  Just emptying this vacuum and getting the filter to look like it won't do you more harm than good by vacuuming with it is super messy and time consuming!  My weekly housekeeper who cleans houses full time also HATES this vacuum and complains to me about it all the time.  It is a good thing that part of the hose is clear because it clogs very easily and when you have to shove a strected out hanger down it to unclog the too narrow hose, at least you can kind of see what you are doing. The first month I had this vacuum, the side front panel fell off and was a pain to find and put back on the vacuum. In second month of owning it, the writing on the handle that tells you which button is for off, which one is for floor/carpet and which one is for suction control writing completely rubbed off.  Also, the suction control button is very easy (too easy) to accidently hit while vacuuming and then you are constantly going through the different levels to get it back on the level you want. Bristles are very stiff and increase the already high noise level of this vacuum on hard wood floors which, is what 98% of my house has. I definitely would not buy this vacuum again!  I have owned Electroluxes, Kenmores and Hoovers before and have never been unhappy with them until they wore out after many years of use. Think twice before buying this vacuum; it looks good but performs terribly!