ID: B0000YTYGM-R3KM8I156DH0HC-A27LSXZ5QMEFEG
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DTC-975BKN-Programmable-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A27LSXZ5QMEFEG
ReviewerName: Rene
Date: February 15, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Cuisinart DTC-975BKN
Content:
Bought this a couple of days ago after reading reviews for a lot of thermal carafe coffee makers.  I did not find any other unit on Amazon.com that seemed better, and my last coffee maker just died after several years of good use.  
(1) I love the capacity.  We have a full house of adults right now, and the 12 "cups" is a very nice capacity.  
(2) This machine keeps my coffee HOT.  I set the timer for 6:30AM and got my first cup at 10AM (it was Saturday).  The coffee was steaming as I poured it.  I never had that experience with my last coffee maker.  
(3) I did not care if the unit had a clock start feature, but now that I have used it once, I like it!
(4) I like the design of their auto-shutoff and pouring system.  It's no big deal whether I have to twist the lid to pour (as with my last unit), but the Cuisinart system seems to keep the coffee hotter.  
(5) I don't know what happened to the other reviewers, but so far I am using the filters that came with the unit with no trouble.  
It could be that they ground their coffee too fine.  This unit uses "cone filters" and my last one used "basket filters".  I never had an overflow with the basket filters, but I remember in my younger days that I had an overflow (once)with a cone filter unit when I ground my coffee too fine.  The only other overflow I ever had was when I failed to seat a coffee pot properly under the "brew and pour" switch/lever.  I'm not saying that's what anyone else did, but those were my two overflows. 
I am concerned about the review that indicated that the unit may die after one year.  But I needed a coffee maker fast, and this unit seemed to be one of the best out there (in my price range anyway), and my experience after the first couple of days is very positive.  
Of course, if anything goes wrong, I'll be back with an update!