ID: B000VDQ38E-R2XQHD99H5TBO2-A9X4HW0OSKR0F
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A9X4HW0OSKR0F
ReviewerName: N. Nelson
Date: March 30, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 1.0
Title: Stay away from this vacuum
Content:
I purchase the Bissel Pet Hari Eraser after reading all the wonderful reviews on how well it picked up pet hair.  I live on a dirt road, have property, and numerous dogs.  I vacuumed with my old vacuum cleaner, and then again with the Bissel when I first purcased it.  Initially it was great, every room I vacuumed I would have to empty the canister at least twice.  Understand that I live on 5 acres of property, I have 7 dogs, and they track dirt in all the time.  This vacuum worked wonderully for the first two months after I purchased it.  About the thrid month, the thing sounded like a jet taxing down the runway for take off.  I called the Bissel 800 number, they had me take the roller out to make sure that was not the source of the noise.  Once the figured out that was not it, they gave me the number to the local authorized service rep.  I called them and explained the problem, told them what type of vacuum cleaner I had, and he basically told me that these vacuums, if you live in an area where you have any type of dirt, are garbage.  He said the problem is the filtration system is not good enough to keep the sand and dirt out of the motor, and there is a chamber in the motor that collects dirt and sand, and that is what makes is noisy.  Of course the warranty does not cover this, it is past the 90 days to return it, and the vacuum company wants $40.00 to clean out the motor, which he said for my area will have to be done every 2 months.  Basically I have myself a $125.00 door stopper...  I will never buy a vacuum cleaner again based on online reviews.  If you want a good vacuum, go to your local vacuum shop and explain to them the type of environment you have at home and take there recommendations.