ID: B000V5QV4S-R25YF5DV3PIXHC-A18KLWANZOBG0J
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-40D-Digital-28-135mm-Standard
ReviewerID: A18KLWANZOBG0J
ReviewerName: Robert E. Glasscock
Date: August 18, 2008
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: FIRST DAY OWNER . . . I'M STUNNED!
Content:
As a long-time Canon EOS Elan IIe (film) owner, with lenses, I've waited to move to digital (till the quality and affordability met my needs / budget). I wanted to stick with Canon (yes my old AF lenses work with the 40D).
Did my research, went to my local camera store, checked my old lenses on the 40D, tried nicely to "deal" with them. They still couldn't touch Amazon's price for this kit.
In the four days (yes, only four) it took for the 40D to reach me (free shipping, incidentally), I bought and read David Busch's book dedicated to the 40D. Highly recommend it. So I was ready.
My camera arrived early this morning. Battery fully charged. I waited till later this afternoon, when the light is better, and took it shooting.
Nature stuff. Children on playgrounds. Birds. Animals. Speedboats on the river. A volleyball game. Portraits of my nephew's wife and their one-year-old daughter (no-flash shots and built-in fill-flash shots). Some with IS on, most with IS off.
Just basic stuff to see what the Basic Modes did on default. Looked at some histograms as I shot, but didn't make any adjustments. (Now that I've looked at the defaults, I will start tweaking the settings for my own preferences.)
Over 300 shots, in JPEG Fine only. No RAW (yet.)
Got home, plugged the CF card into the reader (both from Adorama, though after the fact I realized I could have gotten a slightly better deal from Amazon).
Using FastStone's free Image Viewer (which I wanted to try), I started sorting through my shots, comparing them side by side, tagging those I wanted to delete, batch renaming the ones I kept, etc.
I must have examined my first shot for five minutes, minutely examining the details. Stunned! STUNNED! At HUGE magnifications!
With every shot, I just kept shaking my head in amazement. Virtually FLAWLESS exposure! (One or two had slight clipping in highlights (on the histograms), yet still with incredible detail. One or two were slightly soft on the subject's focus (my fault). Incredible color!
Continuous bursts on the volleyball players and the speedboats and the bikers on bike trails were jaw-dropping! PERFECT focus! PERFECT exposure! At 6.5 fps! (Unheard of, even just a few years ago, at this price point.)
I'm fluent in Photoshop, but prefer to get it right the first time, in the camera.
I've yet to scratch the surface of the 40D's capabilities. Can't wait to get into the "Creative Modes" tomorrow. And then move on to "Custom Modes," etc.
I'm a semi-pro. Got my first SLR when I was 15. I'm 64. I've had 'em all, and loved 'em all.
But I haven't been so immediately impressed, FLOORED actually, by a camera system in my life.
Particularly at this price point, the 40D system is a remarkable achievement.