ID: B000ZZV85Q-R1CN2EIXMQUU81-A3H6NNGCINPLEC
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Evolt-E-3-Mechanical-Stabilization
ReviewerID: A3H6NNGCINPLEC
ReviewerName: Penetralia
Date: November 6, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Olympus E3: An SLR Force to be Reckoned With
Content:
Olympus E3: An SLR Force to be Reckoned With
The Olympus E3 Digital SLR Camera offers the best in digital SLR technology.  With its price and capacity, this global leader is super-fast, strong, stable, and somewhat weatherproof.  
WEATHERPROOFING:   Slightly weatherproof (dust and splash resistant), the Supersonic Wave Filter (SWF) keeps the camera clean and safe in most outdoor conditions. The magnesium-alloy body can operate under temperatures that other SLRs dare to experience.  Most digital cameras have plastic bodies; however, this Olympus is a solid champion.
LCD:   This professional model features a 2.5, multi-angle, rotational HyperCrystal LCD screen that makes picture taking convenient under any pose, above or below subjects.
LIVEVIEW: Photographers now have the option of viewing via the liquid crystal display, or liveview function. This gives one the freedom to  hold eye-to-eye contact, and shoot with ease.
SHUTTER SPEED:  Shutter speed is generously up to 1/8000th of a second, with five frames per second sequential shooting, giving wildlife and sports photographers an extra edge.  
IMAGE STABILIZATION:  One of the best features is the hardcore built-in image stabilization system, utilizing up to five evolt (EV) steps, usually featured within competitor lenses, but now offered within the camera itself.  Regardless of which lens is used with the camera, images are stabilized with every shutter click.
LENSES: Super precision, high speed, ultra quiet lenses are one of the best and fastest in the industry.  Olympus Zuiko Digital SWD (Supersonic Wave Drive) lenses also offer dust reduction immediately after powering on.  The dust removal system's intermolecular force forever shakes off particles unseen by the naked eye at a whopping 30,000 times per second.  Most popular lens for this model are:
* Olympus Zuiko Digital ED 12-60mm f2.8-4.0 SWD
* Olympus Zuiko Digital ED 50-200mm f2.8-3.5 SWD
* Olympus Olympus Zuiko 70-300mm f/4.0-5.6 ED
* Olympus Super Telephoto ED Lens  
MEGAPIXELS: The Olympus E3 has a 10 Megapixel High Speed Live Metal-Oxide Semiconductor (MOS) sensor, converting lighting conditions into electrons, combined with TruePic III image processing engine.  This ensures the best image quality in most every situation.  
RECOMMENDED ACCESSORIES: 
SanDisk 8 GB Extreme III CF Card: The higher gigabyte, the better for holding more treasured photographs on the go.
Olympus 2 GB xD Picture Card Type M: The Olympus E3 uniquely allows photographers to save photos in at least two ways: RAW and JPEG. With the xD picture card and SanDisk CF card, one can save a high quality RAW image on the CF card, and a smaller JPEG on an xD card, providing a backup or option for both images with one shot.
Olympus HLD-4 Power Battery Holder: Attaching easily to the E3's bottom, this compartment holds two BLM-1 lithium ion batteries, which provides extra power for serious shooters.
Olympus BLM-01 Lithium-ion Rechargeable Battery: Extra batteries are highly recommended for off-road excursions
Harness strap: Worn over both shoulders, a harness will eliminate neck strain, which is ever-present with ordinary camera straps. [See: Steiner's German harness systems]
[Under]Waterproofing: Want to bring your E3 underwater? DiPac offers a revolutionary underwater case that fits most SLRs, including this one.
Tenba® Waist Pak: No more carrying heavy equipment on shoulders, back, or neck; the Tenba weather-resistant pouch fits firmly around the waist and secures gear most comfortably. Best of all is the easy access afforded at the fully adjustable hipline.
Olympus FL-50 Electronic Flash:  Standard bounce, swiveling, full range TTL automatic and manual flash syncs at speeds up to 1/4000th of a second.   
Opteka Quick Flip Collapsable Flash Bracket: At a reasonable price, this bracket features pivoting arms, adjustable to 90, 120, and 270 degrees, and includes a detachable hand strap.
Olympus E-3 (EVOLT E-3) Made Easy (2 Tutorial DVDs for Olympus E3 / Evolt E3) by Elite Video: Do you want to learn how to operate your camera quickly and easily? Elite Video offers two full DVD tutorials for Olympus E3, and it is truly "made easy" so neophytes can begin shooting in a flash. 
SquareTrade(tm) Warranty:  Unless purchased by a reputable retailer, a warranty from SquareTrade will protect consumers from most any casualty, fully guaranteed with excellent customer service.