ID: B000Z53IAE-R39XGZJ0AHIKKI-AA5OUA5UDBBWH
Category: AirConditioners
Product: Portable-Air-Conditioner-7000-Dehumidification
ReviewerID: AA5OUA5UDBBWH
ReviewerName: BobLaBlaw
Date: July 7, 2008
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 4.0
Title: Very portable, rolls around on wheels, great for cooling small rooms
Content:
I got it because my place isn't set up very well for the portable A/C units that require you run an exhaust hose through a window, and my electrical circuits just aren't optimized for units that run at 10-15A in my main rooms.
The white tube on the top that blows the A/C air can be flexed and swiveled in any direction you want. The fan you see in the picture is the warm air exhaust vent (intake is on the opposite side). You can route the warm exhaust pretty much any direction you want (obviously you should point it in the opposite direction you want the cold air).
A few notes:
1. It definitely blows nice, cold air, but note that it blows it through a flexible tube in a very specific direction. I can't wait for a hot summer day in Seattle like the 90s we had last week to take full advantage of it. I don't know if I'd recommend it for cooling any area larger than they recommend (max 300 sq ft). But I think it works great to "spot cool" wherever you currently are. Which takes me to my next point...
2. It weighs about 50 lbs and has wheels, so it's pretty easy to roll around with you around the house. Just keep it in whatever room you're currently in and you'll stay nice and cool.
3. The exhaust fan definitely produces warm air. Enough that it feels almost like a heater out the other end. I would recommend you have it pointed in a direction you don't mind a little warm air, and it might help to have a window open at that end with a fan blowing the warm air outside.
4. For those of you worried about blowing circuit breakers like me, the manual says it operates at 6 Amps (690 Watts). After about 30 minutes mine had crept up to 5.7A/660W (hooked up to a Kill-A-Watt circuit tester), so I'd say that's probably pretty accurate.
5. It says it produces about 40-45 decibels. I actually measured mine with a dB meter at about 65dB with the A/C compressor on. Maybe they're talking about when the A/C compressor isn't running and it's just a fan (it cycles on/off as needed). Either way, it isn't terribly loud - I guess about what a powerful fan would be with a metallic sound when the compressor's running. 
*** UPDATE 7/6/09 ***: I found a way to direct the cold air to anywhere within 10-20 feet. I attached a 20 foot flexible dryer exhaust hose to it (the 4" hose fits inside the AC unit's output tube pretty nicely w/minimal leaks). It allows me to put the AC unit near the patio door (so the hot air blows outside), but the hose sits with me on the couch by the TV. Works perfectly. See my product image at top of page.