ID: B000GDBEB0-R21VSV5YXZVIFD-A20H0ORKPJ1MQQ
Category: AirConditioners
Product: Amcor-PLM14000E-Portable-Conditioner-Electronic
ReviewerID: A20H0ORKPJ1MQQ
ReviewerName: D. Nixon "Clown lover"
Date: February 17, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: Di Di
Content:
I hear that gentleman's frustrating experience. Here's my own experience: I am a single parent, no man in the house to help me out. I thought of getting one of those portable window units but I had no idea how to put it in the window without falling to the ground. So I opted for the stand alone portable air conditioner.
I actually bought a 16000 BTU unit but the same brand, etc. I get full on western sun coming through my bedroom window with summer temperatures in the high 90's and 100's in the summer. My daughter and her husband were coming to visit me last summer 07 and I wanted to make sure they were cool as well as I. I already owned a stand along portable air conditioner in 9000 BTU's which worked fine for me the summer before but now, I needed two units, I got the 16000 BTU unit from Amcor and it was so powerful that my circuit breaker kept going off. So much for keeping them cool. I consulted with my brother in law who is a contractor and he said it's easy for him to install a higher circuit breaker. (I don't remember what the term was.) He simply pulled out the original one and inserted the higher (wattage) one and my circuit breaker has never tripped again. It was easy and cheap to do.
Concerning the drainage system. It does have a continuous drainage hose that actually does work even if the drainage plug is at the bottom of the unit. As water piles up, it eventually squirts out the window with a little hose that's included. I can hear it give a little squirt from time to time. A couple of times I even checked to see if there was extra water being built up in the unit that needed to be drained and there never was any that I had to drain out. It works. At the end of summer as I took the unit out from the window, I unplugged the drainage plug and not one drop of water came out.
The one thing I had a big problem with was the exhaust hose. It's made out of cheap, thin plastic that has no insulation around the 4 inch in diamiter hose. My room would get hot simply from the hot exhaust hose. So, the thinker to the solution that I did was I went to a home supply store and bought hose or pipe insulation. I didn't stick the hose through the inner of the insulation, I just doubled it up and cut with a blade the length that I need and duct taped as tightly as I could around the hose. I found that I was faced with the problem that it gets so hot in the summer that even the duct tape came undone, so I wrapped more and more duct tape around and around and that kept from coming undone.
The noise, I can deal with that, it's not super loud. I can't deal with the heat. I like that I can simply take it out of the window when cold weather comes and when hot weather comes again, I can simply rehook it back up in the window. I think it's definately worth buying a stand alone air conditioner that isn't a hassle to hook up and take down.
For full on hot summer sun, this unit kept my bedroom cool. I have a swamp cooler and with one unit at one end of the house (upstairs) and one unit at the other end of the house (upstairs) I never turned on my swamp cooler. I thought the two did better than my crappy swamp cooler. I'm going to buy another one to see how much better the house feels this summer.