ID: B000V5P90K-R12AEP60M6UKL-A3IXXWSTNWCS4G
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-40D-10-1MP-Digital-Body
ReviewerID: A3IXXWSTNWCS4G
ReviewerName: David A. Morehead
Date: February 5, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Easy to use and the pics look great (Without the help of Photoshop)
Content:
Things I really like...
Live view. 
You can magnify the image on screen 10x's so checking focus is very accurate. Also, you can see the exposure change on screen while you are trying different settings. The same is true for white balance. Not sure which white balance to use? Put it in live view and try all the presets and see which one looks the most accurate. This is very helpful! Live view is also great for taking low level shots that wouldn't be possible if you had to look through the viewfinder. Also, it is great for overhead shots. Works great if you are in a crowd and cannot see your subject. It is also good for candid shots. Being able to take pics while not looking through the viewfinder helps you get very natural pics. (No posing or looking nervous that their pic is being taken) Also, Live view is 100% view. Very helpful! What you see is what you get. 
6.5 frames per second. You can get the exact shot you want when you subject is moving. Or, if you don't have a lot of light and you forgot to bring a tripod, fire away and one of your pics will be sharp. You will have to delete a lot of crappy pics but at least you will have one pic that is not blurry.
Easy navigation through menus. The top knob goes from menu to menu and the wheel on the back goes up and down the menus. This is a very efficient way to do this. 
Auto ISO 
Sometimes I use a higher ISO than I need to for low light situations. Auto ISO helps you choose the exact ISO you need. The lower the better.
Comes with a cord to be able to look at your pics on a TV. I love using this to review photos before I download them to the hard drive. I get rid of the duds before they start taking up needless room on my hard drive.
3 inch screen makes it much easier to read menus. Also, reviewing pics is easier. The screen is brighter than previous models so it is easier to see it in bright sunlight.
ISO in viewfinder.
Spot meter. (could be a smaller circle but this is not a huge deal)
Low noise levels at high ISO's. It helps you get decent low light pics until you can afford the very expensive wide aperture lenses. Also, it helps you get more depth of field when the their isn't a lot of light to work with. ISO 3200 is surprisingly useful!
Custom menus-saves time if you have to switch settings in a hurry.
Highlight Tone Priority; It gives you more dynamic range. Less blown out highlights with very little downside. (It takes away ISO 100 and ISO 3200)
Shutter speed 1/8000. Amazing!! You can use large apertures in very bright sunlight giving you a very shallow depth of field affording you more creative options. I took some hand held pics at this setting the other day and it looked like I used a tripod! I zoomed in a lot and the photo was very sharp.
10 Megapixels. Leaves you lots of room to crop and still print big pics.
Things I don't like...
Flash must be used for auto focus assist in low light. It should have a separate light for this.
View finder not 100% view. (but live view is!)
White balance is not accurate for indoor lighting. I have to use an expo disc or gray card to get accurate colors inside. Apparently Nikon is better at this. Canon needs to catch up in this area.
Having to purchase different focusing screens. The Nikon D300 comes with different focusing screens.
The 40D not a perfect camera but it is a really good camera and the price is very fair. I enjoy using mine and the picture quality is excellent. I am learning that photography isn't all about equipment. It's about finding a camera you enjoy using that inspires you to take pics. The 40D makes me look forward to taking pics every time I use it! Thanks Canon for a great camera.