ID: B0001A99MO-R2K3Q91ZUNXOB6-A36W2T3K0D10D9
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-M9160LL-Silver-MODEL
ReviewerID: A36W2T3K0D10D9
ReviewerName: flip
Date: January 5, 2005
Helpful: 14 of 19
Rating: 4.0
Title: A near perfect MP3 player with a few minor flaws
Content:
I recently perchased the ipod mini silver from BestBuy a week or two ago, and I loved it. Unfortunately I dropped a heavy charger on the screen and it cracked, so, just my luck I guess. But my dad bought me another one and sold the cracked one on ebay. I got my new one tonight, and it works pretty much the same, except I'm VERY careful with it now. I guess it's not really that the ipod is, well, flimsy, because it's really actually quite durable. Just dont drop anything on the screen, because it IS glass and the LCD will just flow together. It's my fault, but yeah, now to get on with my review, about the actual product.
I bought the ipod for the same general reason that everyone bought it. It's sexy, slim, and I certainly dont need any more than 4 GB of space. I've heard that it's actually 3.7 GB, but none of the less it'll still take a whikle to fill up that space. Right now I have about 900 MB, so yeah. Anyway the ipod mini is sturdy, perfectly designed, and beautiful, so no cons on the easthetics. My few minor nitpicks are the durability of the screen, and the clickwheel. I told you about the screen, how it can easily be broken. So be sure to get yourself a nice case to protect your investment. And the clickwheel is a bit unreliable at times too. Dont get me wrong, it's amazing technology, but I've had friends say that their clickwheel popped out or broke off or something... so be gentle with that too. But the rest is sound, minis are equipped with an anodized aluminium case that resists stains and scratches.. or so apple claims. I've seen them get scratched, but meh. Anyway, the interface/menus are really great, nothing to poke there, Apple's award winning menus and navigation are perfect, and all at the touch of your thumb. And the backlit LCD display isn't a horrid bright blue or green like so many earlier electronics, it has a beautiful extremely BRIGHT backlight that's a very pretty light blue color, very clear, very easy on the eyes, and very very bright. You can like use ipods to signal in airplanes.
And now for the software aspect. I have windows XP and it actually works pretty well. Itunes is a pretty good music program with very few flaws. The nitpicks I have are these: It's a little slow, and I have a decently fast computer, 1.8 ghz, and the reaction time for clicking on some things is a little prelonged, but that's just me being nurotic. Another downside is when you buy songs off the itunes built in music store, they're in a format called MPEG4, which is apparently some new kind of file that only plays on iPods. Windows Media player wont play them, my other RCA MP3 player wont play them, and they're protected so you can't convert them (to my knowledge) so Apple kinda screwed us windows users there. But I guess we can just use iTunes and our ipods to play music for the rest of our lives, so who cares. Plus, these new file types do sound great.. I only wish they would just let us download universal MP3 files. Oh and you dont have to have a credit card to download music. I just went up to Target and bought a 15 dollar itunes card, it let's you download 15 bucks worth of songs, however what is actually kindof misleading about these though is that you THINK that you're gonna get 15 songs, but you dont. They actually charge tax on their songs, so by the time you buy 13 or 14 songs, you're done. You'd have like 45 cents left or something. Not a big problem, but that is a bit tricky. Napster sells 11 dollar cards and you can get exactly 11 songs on theirs. 
Anyway, onto the longterm issues. If you're going to buy an ipod, make sure that you're getting a warranty on it, because it really sucks to pay 250 bucks, have it break, and thats the end. Also word has it that the ipod battery gives up after a year or two, and you have to send it in and have it fixed for 100 bucks. So see if you can get a battery warranty protection plan also. That's what I got the first time, unfortunately, Bestbuy only replaces your battery, they dont give a rats ass about cracked screens. Be very wise when buying these, think about it.
And that's about it, except for one thing. A lot of people are liking this but there's one thing pushing them away, the price. And you're right, it is quite a bit overpriced. Most of what your paying for is the Apple brand. That's why the new Dell pocket DJ is a lot cheaper and of a lot better value. The Dell Pocket DJ is the same size, and same basic look as the apple ipod mini. It costs 50 bucks cheaper and it has 5 GB, not 4. So there you go. You can buy into the Apple craze, like I did, or you can go with the dell Jukebox, and be a bit smarter. The only reason I liked this one more is because I like how it looks more, because I'm just an aesthetics person. But you make the choice for you, style or storage.
Hope this helps!