ID: B00005IBX9-R2PZVZHXEUXS99-AFMITL6YIFJNC
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1200-Central-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: AFMITL6YIFJNC
ReviewerName: sitiakab "sitiakab"
Date: April 15, 2007
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: better than Mr. Coffee's I have tried
Content:
I ordered this after years of purchasing - and throwing away - Mr. Coffee models that stopped working after short periods of time.  I have had it for a month and so far so good.  
I purchased this during a very breif one day sale on Amazon for $50 including shipping, and I think it more frequently goes on sale for $60 with free shipping - but not sure.
It makes good coffee, using a differant system than a normal drip maker - as the hot water is injected into the grounds utilizing a somewhat pressurized sealed brewing area.  However, this also means when you are done, and have cleaned the unit, if you close the lid the moisture remains locked into this area - may be a health issue, not sure?  
The unit is tall - and if you open the lid to add coffee or water, or clean it or let it dry out, it will probably not fit underneath most above the counter cabinets with the lid raised.  
This means you have to pull it out towards the front edge of your kitchen counter for filling and cleaning.  This height also makes it a little tough to see the inside water marks, so you need to fill the desired water level by refering to the marks on the carafe and not on the inside of the maker.  
The carafe is a little difficult to clean, as the lid has recessed areas that prevent all of the cleaning  / rinsing water from draining out when you turn it upside down, and so you have to rinse it out a number of times to get all of the remaining coffee out of it. 
The metal filter is nice, which eliminates the need for paper filters, and the little handle makes it easy to remove for cleaning. If you want to use paper filters it looks like you would have to purchase cone shapped filers, and not the more typical flat bottom filters.  
I did not try the auto programing feature, I just fill it each morning and turn it on.  I wish there was a way to turn off the 5 beeps that occure when done brewing so it would not make that noise which might wake up others in your home that might still be sleeping.
Even with all of the little disapointments or concerns, still seems like a very good unit.