ID: B000AQPMHA-R1L9IKZ0382QYZ-A3GYPKXZELPMZA
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Gourmet-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: A3GYPKXZELPMZA
ReviewerName: MustangMelz "Melz"
Date: October 18, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Skip the drive-thru!
Content:
I have to admit that I've become a bit of a coffee snob in my middle age.  I enjoy interesting blends and exotic mixes. I love the aroma and flavor, but mostly I love that first cup in the morning.  That's actually why I started researching single-cup brewing; I was experiencing disappointment with all the cups after that first cup. I'd even started a weekly trip to the drive-thru of the local corporate coffee monster to get a truly fresh cup on my way to work. I don't drink coffee all day; I usually only have two to three cups, but after the first cup with my old brewer....sigh...something was missing.
 My research lead me to the Keurig brand. I discovered that Keurig has a great assortment of coffees (many fair trade, even Newman's Own, a company I love to support).  Keurig also has great teas (including my all time favorite:  Sleepytime).  The price of the coffee maker startled me initially, but when I added up the cost of my drive-thru habit, I was able to work my way thru the feelings of excess.  
The B40 Elite is super simple to use. The coffee is ready in 30 seconds!  I like the auto-off feature for weekdays; on weekends I leave the machine turned on for afternoon coffee or tea.  The Keurig does have a very loud water pump, but it's a good reminder that the coffee's done when I'm a bit blurry in the mornings
Some of the coffees in the variety pack that came with my Keurig seem a tad weak, so I'll just order the bold or rich varieties. I've actually used the k-cup for some of those stronger blends twice (I like to experiment), and they seemed adequate in a crunch.   To supplement the offered k-cups with some grinds not (yet) available in pre-made k-cups, I purchased the 'My k-cup' accessory; I highly recommend it. The Keurig has a rather large footprint, but it's artfully made, so I can live with that.
Bottom line?  I love this machine.  I won't go back to a 'traditional' brewer.  I guess the folks at the drive thru will miss me...