ID: B0001K5GOE-RN3A652XCC6I9-A3TDH8COFBJFIF
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dyson-DC-11-Telescope-Canister
ReviewerID: A3TDH8COFBJFIF
ReviewerName: CultureAddict
Date: December 30, 2004
Helpful: 19 of 19
Rating: 4.0
Title: Spectacular vacuum with a few caveats
Content:
I just bought this after reading several magazine articles and the reviews on Amazon. Some of the reviews on this site were slightly off-putting, but I bought it anyway because I have used several other Dyson products, which were all spectacular.  Suction on the device is excellent, and the details and accessories are uniformly well-designed.  The DC11 includes a lot of features that are very helpful while in use that I didn't even know I needed.  Everything is very well thought out and works well, especially the telescoping handle, which allows for extremly compact storage.
It is, however, more complicated than the average vacuum and requires a bit of knowledge before it can be used properly.  It is not the ideal vacuum for a family where the kids do the vacuuming, to say the least, as they would most likly use it incorrectly.
As for the negative feedback in this forum, I believe most of it is accurate, although I don't think it outweighs the positives.  A lot of junk collects in the canisters, which can be eye-opening, but I suspect you would see that in most vacuums if the bags were transparent.  The canisters are also smaller than most bags, which gives the impression that its sucking up a very large amount of debris.  You will need to empty the canisters more often than you would a bag, but you'll need to buy new bags, well ... never.  So that's nice, right?
A lot of the complaints were directed at the spinning carpet head, which is very, very well designed and a wonder to behold.  If you are vacuuming hard surfaces, however, the spinning head will most likely disengage.  This is great if you are switching from a carpet to a hard floor, but does mean that you will need to push a button every time that you switch from hard floor to the carpet.  If you bump the button while vacuuming, it will stop the spinning head as well, which is a bit of a pain.
The only other common complaint in this forum was that the telescoping tube or the hose clogs.  This hasn't happened to me, ever, alhtough I did get a clog in the carpet head once, after trying to vacuum spilled dry spaghetti on the carpet.  The clog was easy to clear, however, and it didn't present a problem for me.  The aperture between the hose and the carpet head is a little small, though, so if you try to vacuum stupid stuff like pasta or bent paperclips, I would bet you could recreate my clog.
I have a NY apartment with lots of nooks and crannies, so it's a perfect machine for me (really light and portable, and it rolls right with you instead of falling over, which is what my last vacuum did).  If you do a lot of vacuuming in a large home, however, an upright might be a better choice.
Bottom line, this is an extremely well thought out and functional machine that would be ideal for an intelligent user who needs to meticulously clean medium-sized places.