ID: B0000AFX53-R9P7JMEXKNIHL-A24DNGQ2SA9JH
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Krups-468-42-Moka-8-Cup-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A24DNGQ2SA9JH
ReviewerName: Mr. Roderick L. House "rod house"
Date: March 19, 2007
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Moot Point at this late date.... But,
Content:
Perhaps at some point in time the Moka Brew will be imported again. It is my understanding that they have been in use in Europe for years and I imagine they are quite popular there.  I bought mine, in spite some of the negative reviews in Oct of '05.  I have used it daily for a year and a half, and I dread the day I can't make coffee the low pressure steam way.  I've been roasting my own coffee for about 3 years, though I am not a coffee nut. I just love good, not bitter, not burned coffee.  Just so anyone reading this knows the current status; Moka Brews have been selling on e-Bay for around $165 to $195 + .  There is a reason for that, this is a superior way to make excellent coffee in the kind of quantity we 'mericans like.  As to the, in my opinion, nigling complaints by some folks who probably are better off with a MR Coffee:  (1)  A pair of sharp scissors, an 8oz margerine cup lid, and a modicum of creativity will solve the filter "problem."  I use an Irwin 4in Quick Clamp to clamp 8 or so Melita 8-12 C basket filters under the plastic lid and cut circles the perfect size. I use two at a time as they are very thin.  Problem solved.  (2)No, it ain't automatic and it doesn't keep the coffee hot, and you actually have to THINK as you are pouring the water in!  I relegated my more expensive Cuisenart to hot plate duty and turn off the MB as soon as the coffee is made. I take the lid off the boiler chamber immediately so the heat of the element drives off any residual water. There is no way I would waste the life of the MB to keep coffee hot; if you could just buy a new one, maybe, but not now!  (3)Yup, you have to experiment, and learn how it works, but it is well worth it. To the complainers out there who are using theirs as doorstops, If you will send those doorstops to me, I'll send you the cost of the best Mr. Coffee you can buy at YOUR local WallMart and a pound of Sam's best coffee.  Send those used Moka Brews to Rod House at 408 E. Field St. La Veta, CO 81055!  And THANK YOU in advance! 
Rod House     :)