ID: B000BXKIE4-R1ENSNEW5YVCT2-A19CHPS4WRHGHG
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL-7020B-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A19CHPS4WRHGHG
ReviewerName: Melanie
Date: June 22, 2006
Helpful: 11 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: this vacuum had everything I wanted
Content:
I used my mom's electrolux for 5 years (and she had used it for 5 years before me) and it finally died.  I've been searching reviews and looking at models for the past two months, and finally decided on this one.  The most important feature was the HEPA filtration, then the ability to do both carpet and bare floors. 
It was easy to put together, and the instructions are clear.  The telescoping wand is excellent for my needs - I have a bad back and being able to make the wand longer so I don't have to reach and bend is a backsaver!  The wand disconnects from the hose easily.  The power contols are on the wand within easy reach of a thumb.  I did have to read the instructions to figure out which button was which.  There are 3 buttons - power, bare floor/carpet, and suction strength.  There's also a manual pedal adjustment on the powerhead for carpet pile adjustment that's easy to adjust with your foot.  Power cord is a little short, but easily solved with an extension cord.  The carrying handle also serves as the cord retriever - neat!  It's easy to carry up and down stairs.  The bag is easy to get to and replace.  It comes with the option of using an s clinic bag or an s classic bag.  http://electroluxservice.stores.yahoo.net/vacuumbags.html
It cleaned medium pile carpet, persian type rugs, and bare floors   with ease.  I haven't found it too heavy, and the large wheels make it very easy to maneuver.  It comes with an extra wide bare floor head and an upholstery head that I haven't found the need to use yet.  In addition, there are two heads (dust and crevice) right in the wand piece.  The powerhead is noisy but not as much as the previous model I used, and I'm willing to deal with the noise because it cleaned the carpet so well. 
I've been pleasantly surprised by this model, and am very happy with it.