ID: B000BR8P0Y-R11Y97B8WY5L5J-A1ESQB1S24V57F
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Holmes-HFH2992-U-Whisper-Digital-Thermostat
ReviewerID: A1ESQB1S24V57F
ReviewerName: M. Wilkerson
Date: December 22, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Very quiet
Content:
There are more efficient space heaters on the market with more accurate thermostats, but this heater is incredibly quiet and heats well. It is not a perfect heater, but I could not find a better heater to use in the bedroom due to the fact it is so quiet. I was surprised to find that there were no or very few other fan driven space heaters out there which have a digital thermostat and are quiet. One small negative about this unit is that the thermostat is located close to the heating element which causes the heater to cycle on a off a bit more than others. In basic the thermostat registers the temperature inside the unit instead of the temperature of the room. But since it is whisper quiet, that is not a big issue. The thermostat readjusts after it cools a little and then the heater turns on again. Another small drawback is that when you turn off the heater and then turn it on again, you have to reset the thermostat settings. That is a very small issue, but I am not certain why they could not make put a thermostat in the unit that does not have to be readjusted each time it is turned on. I bought another heater that heats the room a bit faster and did not cycle on and off. But that heater was too loud. I place this heater fairly close to my nightstand and cannot hear it turning on or off. To be used for heating a bedroom, I recommend the use of this unit.
As other reviewers have stated, mine also arrived covered with fingerprints and a layer of dust. At first, I thought it may have been used before, but after inspecting the heating element and the condition of the unit after I cleaned it up, I realized it was completely new and had not previously been used. It had simply acquired the dust and fingerprints in whatever packaging process the company used. Some buyers may inaccurately assumed their units were previously used simply because of the dusty condition of the units when first taken out of the box. As with the unit I purchased, it simply required a dusting before first using it.