ID: B0006ABOAE-R3ASJISXRUC4OA-A310K8X8ZXPJRR
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Mr-Coffee-ECM21-Espresso-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A310K8X8ZXPJRR
ReviewerName: DJ
Date: August 10, 2007
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 3.0
Title: Buyer beware!
Content:
I purchased this only to recieve it all scratched up on the outside.  Not Amazon's fault.  I did contact them and told them I could live with the scratches (looked like the plastic was cleaned with a brillo pad).  I told Amazon I wanted to recieve a discount on the unit which they did give me, and was more then I expected (hats off to customer service for their quick responses) instead fo going through the whole hassle of driving to the post office to return it.  Customer service was excellent on their part.  After just 2 uses I noticed a white haze froming around the flimsy front hinge to the lid of the coffee/water reservoir on the coffee maker side.  I guess it was the glue that was used to fix it by the prior owner (I did purchase this as new).  The frother worked great just that the design could have been better to get the pitcher under it with more room.  I never did get to use the espresso maker.  I was not impressed with the the cheapness of the design.  The carafe lid hinges are also very flimsy and will easily break off if you are not careful.  I was not happy with having to swing the hot water arm out and back when putting in the coffee basket.  If you forget to replace it and go to put the lid down you can break the hinges on it.  I am not sure why they made it with a removable fresh water reservoir.  It does not to need to be removable.  Just more parts to break or the rubber washer to wear out.  There is an odd feature you have to use.  You have to lock the coffee basket in place using the attached handle.  It is a great looking unit.  Mr Coffee needs to listen to consumer reviews to revamp it and it really could go from poor to great in my book. the 2 times I did use it for coffee it worked wonderful.  I am now shopping for a new one by a different company and returned this one in less then a week.