ID: B000EPLP3C-R21SR1O9T28HSG-A28GMQO7UAC96C
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A28GMQO7UAC96C
ReviewerName: AjuMatt
Date: December 11, 2006
Helpful: 12 of 25
Rating: 5.0
Title: Not a Microsoft employee... Just an experienced buyer!
Content:
First of all, I just wanted to tell all of you that I'm not working for any companies or corporations.  I owe mp3/video players from Creative, Apple, iRiver, and Microsoft.  I bought a Zune a few days ago.  I also have a 5th generation Ipod.  I have a Creative Zen Vision M.  I love the Zune the most.  If you know how to use an ipod, and if you have common sense, this product is for you.  I read the reviews everyone wrote for this product, and I'm sure that these people are just M$oft bashers.  I have plenty of friends who blame everything on Microsoft, corporations, and oil companies for all their miseries.  I have to say that I have an ipod, and I think it's made for simpletons and people who like to do the fad.  Ipods are toys for idiots who would buy something, because of a famous personality being it's spokeperson or the commercials on TV.  Something people buy, because everyone else has one.  The a latest ipod costs $250 to 300 and you are lucky if you get it for cheaper.  It can't do anything right.  The ipod freezes way too often and the video is horrible.  The 5th ipod doesn't seem to be made for playing long videos, even though it has the nickname ipod video.  You have to wait a few seconds for the video to load and start playing.  And I believe that buying music online is a bunch of bull sht.  If you uninstall your music program, you loose all the music you downloaded, because of all those copywright crap, like DRM, they put in with the music files.  I would just buy the cd for like $10 from circuit city and convert it to MP3 or WMA.  Ipod doesn't support all the many types of Audio or video files that the Zune can handle.  The Zune also has a better brighter screen with more resolution and colors.  Put it side by side with an ipod and compare the difference for yourself.  The audio is way better on a Zune.  Don't download videos from iTunes or anything like that.  Only idiots pay to download videos.  Instead rip the videos, or download it from some other source.  Then don't use the programs like Zune marketplace or iTunes.  You shouldn't have to install any software to add music and videos to your player.  And for those who think that this toy looks ugly, why don't you shove your ipods, because this comes with a low maintainence package.  My ipod was full of scratches the first day I opened it out of the package.  I bought an ipod using apple, and I had to buy better headphones, a 3rd party cases, and other stuff.  I just got sick of it, so I gave it away to my little brother.  Now he even complaints about it.  The ipod is a fad, so get over it.  Some people think that podcasts can only be done with an ipod.  You people are getting ripped off for your money.  I want a media player that can play all my music files, including WMAs.  I want one that can play my DVD rips without freezing or slow starts.  I want something that is different from what everyone else has.  I like to listen to live radio broadcasts sometimes, so I need an FM tuner.  I need something that will support Microsoft vista fully in the future.  Do some real research before you talk about or buy a product.  Read unbiased reviews, not the opinions of people who don't even own a Zune.  Shop smart for yourself!  If you are really serious about learning more about the zune and the ipod, you must visit www dot zunescene dot com to learn more about it.  The Zune is basically an upgraded ipod.  It's faster, more customizable, but more for the geeks and .