ID: B000TXT3BU-R3V6UGFMRQACJ6-ANJHE0S3PY6D1
Category: Laptops
Product: Dell-Latitude-D600-Laptop-Professional
ReviewerID: ANJHE0S3PY6D1
ReviewerName: Y. Jossa
Date: March 2, 2009
Helpful: 8 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: Cheap n awesome laptop!!
Content:
The Dell 610 laptop and its various submodels featuring different dual core Pentium M processors ranging from 1.6 to 2Ghz, is one of the smallest, compact and best built laptops i've owned.
If you are looking for a laptop with a huge 17" LCD screen to impress your neighbors with, the Dell 610 is not for you, but if you are looking for a small, light laptop that you can carry anywhere in your backpack or suitcase without taking a lot of space, this is it.
This is a great laptop for traveling, and it has been my companion in many trips overseas.
The first Dell 610 i owned was given to me by a former employer, and since i had to give it back when my employment ended, i knew i had to get another one, i was more than happy to purchase a used model for under $300.
The processing power and storage space on the laptop is enough to store hours and hours of music on mp3s, and do the stuff that most people do on their computer: work on Microsoft Office, play MP3, upload pics from your camera using the built-in firewire port, burn CDs and DVDs, etc.
I've never had a problem using the built-in wireless network interface in the various countries i've traveled to.
If you need to connect a lot of USB items, (like a mini optical mouse or your cellphone) the laptop cradle has extra USB ports and a VGA port if you need to connect it to a bigger monitor, and if you really want to go light, you can remove the cradle and the laptop becomes as light and thin as a small book. 
The size of this laptop becomes a pro when traveling in third-world countries, where carrying a huge laptop with a big 17" screen becomes more of a liability. 
I've hidden the Dell 610 inside a backpack, and ridden public transportation in South American without anyone knowing that i had a laptop. For someone who travels a lot, the peace of mind is enough to purchase this laptop.
I truly love my Dell 610, and i think it is one of the best Dell laptop models has designed so far.