ID: B000MMK23Q-R1IK0PKIDNH0BS-A1BVCH82W0M2W2
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: EdenPURE-Model-Quartz-Infrared-Heater
ReviewerID: A1BVCH82W0M2W2
ReviewerName: Paul Tognetti "The real world is so much more...
Date: September 23, 2009
Helpful: 13 of 19
Rating: 4.0
Title: This marvelous heater has helped us to cut our heating bill dramatically!
Content:
With the onset of cooler weather just around the corner it is time to think about how you can reduce the cost of heating your home this winter.  Let me say at the outset that the Eden Pure GEN3 Model 1000 Portable Heater is not for everyone.  If you live in a big house with large open rooms and cathedral ceilings then read no further.  You'll have to look elsewhere to solve your problem.  But if you reside in a smaller home and have the ability to close doors then the Eden Pure heater just might be your ticket to significantly lower heating costs.   
My wife and I purchased our first Eden Pure heater about two years ago.  Given the escalating price of fuel oil we felt we needed to find an alternative way to keep our home comfortable during the chilly New England winter.  I spotted a full page ad in our local newspaper for the Eden Pure heater and decided to give it a try.  All Eden Pure heaters come with a 60 day total satisfaction guarantee.  60 days is more than enough time to determine whether or not this product is going to work for you.  We decided to purchase the smaller Model 500 unit and began using it to heat our living room in the evening.  We kept our thermostat at 58.  While the smaller model was OK it did not make the room as toasty warm as we had hoped.  After about two months the infrared bulb failed forcing us to return the unit to the manufacturer for replacement.  The replacement unit arrived just days later with a letter of apology.  To compensate for our inconvenience the folks at Eden Pure upgraded us to the Model 1000 product at no additional charge.  As it turned out this was a terrific break for us as the Model 1000 was exactly what we needed.  To make a long story short we have since purchased another Model 1000 for our bedroom and bought another for our pastor to use in his bedroom at the rectory.  We count ourselves very happy customers of this product.  We continue to be very frugal about they way we heat our home and use our heating system as little as possible.  I would estimate that it costs us no more than 15 cents an hour to use the Eden Pure heater.  Furthermore, over the past two winters I would estimate that we have saved in the neighborhood of $200-$300 per year on heating oil.  In essence, these Eden Pure heaters have practically paid for themselves.
One final note.  Unlike other electric heaters we have used the Eden Pure GEN3 Model 1000 Portable Heater will not dry out the air.  This is a one of major reasons we are so happy with this product.  Also, this unit does not get hot so it is perfectly safe to use around little kids and pets.  Finally, the unit is mounted on wheels making it pretty easy to move from room to room. I have to admit I am flabbergasted by the number of negative reviews this item has received. I suspect that most people who wound up dissatisfied tried using them in very large rooms.  But if you are actively seeking ways to cut the cost of heating your home consider Eden Pure. Check them out online.  You just might discover a way to keep you and your family comfortable this winter at a price you can afford. Highly recommended!