ID: B000EPHP4U-R2BBX3DSHXJWU0-A1GWY30T0WD99M
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Black-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A1GWY30T0WD99M
ReviewerName: Sam TIP
Date: October 3, 2006
Helpful: 5 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very Useful, but a Bit Pricey...
Content:
The Ipod is a well-designed compressed music file player with easy-to-use resident software. Forget about the photo angle - the images are just too small to be useful. The iPod nano is all about music.
It's hard to get away from the fact that it's expensive for what it is and you're chained to Apple's software (iTunes) to get the job done. But it does that job very well indeed. Legal internet intrusion, obvious and not so obvious, is way out of hand these days so I'm glad I've iTunes set up on a computer that is never online. (I buy CDs and copy directly to the hard drive using preferred software.)
ITunes is now only available as a 36MBish download, so too bad if you don't connect or don't have broadband. Doubtless Apple wants us all to visit its site on a regular basis and be uniquely identified and enticed to buy. Arguably, copying entire CDs or just our favourite tracks is the best approach for those who are definitely serious about their music rather than those who collect a mass of Chart songs and listen to them as if the whole process is some kind of fashion statement. Arguably!
Music on the move doesn't appeal to a lot of people. The headphones aren't great, background sound can be a nuisance, and there are health concerns over sound levels. Thankfully the iPod gives us the option to dock it with something substantial like Monitor Audio's excellent I-deck or smaller portable players such as Koda's Imoves. Or you can simply connect your player to your hi-fi with the appropriate lead.
I originally bought a 2GB iPod and quickly filled it. I have quite a collection of homemade compilation CDs that hold all my favourite tracks from the last 35 years and along with a few special complete albums they very neatly filled the 1.8GB capacity with 404 songs (the Yes album "Relayer" included). So I bought a 4GB iPod to take me much further with new rock releases and classical and Irish music too, and I much prefer the choice of 2 iPods.
To have all your favourite music residing in a couple of tiny players is a real boon. It's the most efficient way of managing and listening to music. Put them in Exspect EX410 cases - very well made.