ID: B00006IUVD-R21D427H7JAJNX-A2KP45DO3RY4RG
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-DCM18-Brew-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A2KP45DO3RY4RG
ReviewerName: CheeryToes
Date: December 31, 2005
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Replacing my old one
Content:
Now I've had my original brew and go for about 5 years. It has worked PERFECTLY all that time. It still works perfectly. I lost the mug and was looking for a new one and they all seemed to cost 10 bucks - so Amazon had the whole new thing for 10 bucks and no shipping (prime) and I said - hey - might as well buy a whole new thing for the price of a mug. And I did- I've made about 5 cups of coffee with the new one - so far no problems. The coffee grounds problem I've never had - BUT - I never use the permanent filter. 1) according to research the paper filter removes some carcinagen that the permanent filters do not - so I use the paper. 2)I buy NUMBER 2 unbleached filters from Melita - buy 100 pack. Prhaps it is their size that prevents the grounds from flowing over, but I never have that problem. I love my brew n go - love it! Perhaps I'll have problems with my new one - perhaps B&D quit making it and that's the problem. I'll let you know in a few months. (at which time, if there's a problem I'll bring out my old one) 
p.s. I normally brew my coffee into a regular mug for drinking at home. And a HUGE regular mug will fit under the drippy thing.
p.s. 2 I like my coffee strong and I never have a problem with getting it nice and strong with two scoops of coffee per mug. (but I do grind my coffee myself) That's all - hope it helps you make a decision. 
May 2 follow up - been using it for 5 months now. Still makes great coffee! Still have no problem with grounds in my coffee, and I started using 3 scoops, per Alton Brown. I did have a problem pouring water in the resovoir that I didn't have with my old one - but I just use a measuring cup now, and things are fine. I've read other people say it tastes like plastic - never had that happen or that the water is too cool - I make mine from the water in the fridge and it is still a piping hot cup of coffee - as long as you drink it right away. If it sits it cools down rapidly because it has no heat source, just as if you had poured it and let it sit.  I got mine really cheap - but I'd have paid more for it. The end!