ID: B00006F2MH-R1SZYQMJAQPJW9-A1YZ948AM71YNP
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB500BK-Grind-Brew-Black
ReviewerID: A1YZ948AM71YNP
ReviewerName: "moxcal"
Date: December 29, 2002
Helpful: 14 of 14
Rating: 5.0
Title: My Third Cuisinart Grind & Brew and the Best Yet!
Content:
I just bought this one, the third one of these I've owned but the first with this new design.  And Cuisinart has definitely improved it.If you've never owned a 'grind and brew' type of coffee maker, there are several things you should know before buying:1.  They require additional cleaning.  There are more parts to clean than a typical coffee maker, and you must wash out the grounds from the grinding vessel and shoot.  But at most, it will add five minutes to your cleaning.2.  They will eventually wear out.  Lots of moving parts all working together and contained in a single unit make it inevitable.  I brew one two two pots of coffee every day with the unit; both of my first units stopped working after two and a half years of use.  But since it comes with a three-year warranty, I simply returned the first one to Cuisinart and they replaced it with a new unit.  Which means each purchase has lasted five to six years, not bad given the constant use it gets.3.  No coffee maker produces better coffee.  I couldn't imagine using a regular coffee maker after using this one.  Many friends and family who have visited and tried my coffee consistently remark on how it's the best coffee they've had.Cuisinart has made many improvements with this new design: (a) smaller footprint, so it takes up a lot less room on the counter; (b) easier to clean and easier to keep the kitchen clean, since the pieces are separated and drip less; (c) built-in water filter, eliminating the need for spring water to make great-tasting coffee; and, (d) buttons on top, resulting in fewer accidental starts when cleaning around the unit.  To name a few.And what's more, the price has actually gone down from when this first came to market.  What's not to love?!