ID: B000EWFGUS-R3FFDFDGNZ1XI0-AAQXAHPT8UU0O
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Hamilton-Beach-43253-Ensemble-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: AAQXAHPT8UU0O
ReviewerName: Wild Bill
Date: October 11, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 3.0
Title: One of the better coffee makers available at a reasonable price
Content:
note: this review is based on our experiences w/ this product for approx 6 mos of daily usage since it was purchased.  
This coffee maker replaced a rather awful & short-lived KitchenAid coffee maker that leaked water whenever it was used - lots of water that began to become a hazard.   This coffee maker initially arrived w/ missing parts, and it was a bit of a hassle getting a replacement from Amazon.   Lots of phone calls to someone half way around the world that struggled w/ English, before I was advised to place a duplicate order, but that I had to first package up the original and ship it back to Amazon, and only when they received it, and verified that it was - in fact - missing parts, would they ship the replacement to us, alomg w/ a credit for the first purchase.   (in the meantime, we had to drink instant coffee for over a week)  When the replacement arrived, that one was also missing a part, but we were able to still use the coffee maker after some fiddling w/ it. . .
A couple of cosmetic & design issues: 
the red color doesn't match the hue, nor the finish, of our other red appliances from KitchenAid, Cusinart, & West Bend which all have a much richer & glossy finish, while Hamilton Beach's red appears 'washed-out', and has a 'flat', rather than even a satin finish.   Next to the other red appliances, the Hanilton Beach coffee maker sticks out like an old appliance, but as a stand-alone appliance across the kitchen from the other ones, it's less of an objection.
Also, this coffee maker - like most other ones - is rather tall, and the rear- hinged lid that must be raised all the way up to load both coffee grinds & water, dictates that the coffee maker must be slid all the way towards the very front of the countertop so that it doesn't hang up on the overhead cabinets.   It's impossible to add either coffee or water while it's under the upper cabinets (but that does facilitate a daily wiping up of a small amount of coffee-stained water that is dripping out of the appliance - no where as much as the one it replaced, but still a pain to deal w/ daily), and raises the issue of just how much of a quality item is this product?
Occasionaly, it's necessasry to microwave freshly brewed coffee, as it may be only moderately warm (and never is it 'hot', until it's been on the coffee maker's heated burner for approx 15 minutes or so).     .
On a positive note, it's simple to clean up the insides, has a well-designed coffee pot, and most importantly, it makes good coffee.   If it didn't, I either toss it or donate it. . .