ID: B000OZYD5O-R2HDRTU2S7OAWT-A3HIB8R59RNYNV
Category: AirConditioners
Product: WA-9000E-000-BTU-Portable-Conditioner-Remote
ReviewerID: A3HIB8R59RNYNV
ReviewerName: Cyborg "RoadRunner"
Date: April 27, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: very good, efficient, quiet, and well made portable unit
Content:
Let me explain what I think about this unit. I have 3500 square feet house in Central Florida and top of the line heat pump Central Air just installed a few years ago. All works perfect except one thing: I have to cool the entire house with it and at 4500 Watts in case of power down my diesel generator at 6500 Watts is just about running it when 1100 Watts refrigerator and lights are on at the same time. Another thing is Central Air conditioner will get you over 250 bucks electric bill during summer and this is when thermostat is set to only 79 degrees Fahrenheit. Now, I ordered this unit thinking it is going to be so-so portable that can subsidize cooling now and then. The unit came in UPS, it is about 84 lbs, has wheels, is very quiet, does wonders drying the air, very nice quality built and components, remote, digital thermostat, can be converted to auto drain with just additional hose if you really must, runs on 1100 Watts, and is pleasant to look at. At 9000 BTU it is very nice gizmo indeed - no vibrations, smooth working and very well made. That very same day I received it and run it for entire day, I ordered another one just like it. I hope that explains how good and useful this thing is. Get one if you need one and you will be happy you did. BTW, packaging for shipping was absolutely exemplary - this thing would have to be dropped from 2nd floor on concrete to get damaged in all that styrofoam and cartons. I am very happy with this purchase. Remote is also quite handy when you use it in the bedroom at night. Water tank that had to be emptied is actually good thing, because no worries about over flooding the unit, and you can distilled water for ironing or car battery if you ever need that. The conversion adapter for continues water drain is included if you need that. I am somehow puzzled with negative review posted under Alesia, because I went to this individual's "see my other reviews" and there were like a HUNDRED of portable units, all with the SAME REVIEW and all purchased on the SAME DAY. That is very strange indeed. It is either mistake or overdose. Anyway, I think this unit is working well and it is worth the money. I use it already for over a month and it is better then ever.