ID: B0001MXU68-R1BXGD0KEU6ZJY-A2OENDUAX1E4MX
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Melitta-MES2B-One-Single-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A2OENDUAX1E4MX
ReviewerName: deerflyguy
Date: October 4, 2004
Helpful: 22 of 22
Rating: 4.0
Title: Fast Brewing; Easy to use; Excellent Alternative!
Content:
The advent of the one cup brewing system has made me a coffee drinker again! 
I live alone and retired a year ago, and was used to having my two cups of coffee each day while at work, but since retiring, making even a small pot of coffee was not something that I wanted to do, because of the mess and bother - and waste! Of course, having a pot of coffee sitting around until it gets used, always results in it ending up becoming too strong to drink, and sometimes boiling down to a black sludge when you forget to turn off the machine. NO MORE!
Recently, I saw a Melitta One:One brewing system on sale at Wal Mart and decided to buy it. I think it was a good decision!
I knew that the cost would be more per cup, due to my not being able to purchase in bulk, but there is NO waste, the coffee is always the same in quality and taste, and clean up is almost completely eliminated.
Melitta makes six different grinds, all prepackaged and individually sealed for freshness. Other coffee makers put 18 pods in a bag and forget about freshness after you've opened the bag for the first cup. As with all other coffees, you must seek a flavor that pleases you, but that shouldn't be too hard. They also make several teas, but because of the high product cost, I suggest that you use the unit to heat the water and then use a conventional tea bag.
If there is a negative to this system, it is that the product line is costly, at least in my point of view. I would like to be able to buy in bulk, and have a larger selection of product coffee brands to purchase. As for now, we Melitta people are basically forced to buy only the Melitta brand products in 18 pod boxes. Some competition would bring the prices down. Amazon.com has the best prices, and if you buy enough product, can get free shipping.
When I first got the Melitta system, I, as with others here reviewing, had a problem with machine leakage. When the machine leaked, the coffee was stronger because the leakage water didn't make it to the cup. I experimented and determined that by pushing the pod down in the pod holder, so that the edge of the pod didn't inpede contact of the machine lid to the pod holder, the leakage no longer occurred. A tighter seal was obtained. The coffee flavor was uniform and the leakage mess was no more.
Also, a tip for users: I don't like either too strong or too weak a brew. I also want a full cup of coffee, and neither 5 or 8 ounces is enough. Instead of choosing either a 5 oz. or 8 oz. brew, I do both! First I do the 5 oz. and before removing the cup, allow the water to reheat and then push the 8 oz. button, thus giving me a 13 oz. cup of coffee, from the same pod! That suits my taste and gives me the quantity that I want!
Would I buy the Melitta system again? Probably not, but only because of the monopoly regarding the product line, not for any shortcoming of the system itself! I might try one of the other machines put out by other makers, but would definitely know more about which coffees were available and how much selection and cost of product would be. Single service coffee makers are definitely made for me! 
Additional comments:
After making the above review, I found that you can use ANY of the store brand coffee pods (Senseo, Home Cafe, etc.), even though they are of a larger diameter and do not fit the Melitta machine pod holder as designed. You have to crimp the off brand pod, using your fingers, and jam it into the Melitta pod holder, but it will fit, and a good cup of coffee can be enjoyed. The secret is to make sure the Melitta lid makes contact with the Melitta pod holder, so that a good tight seal is assured. I know this works, because I bought a bag of Folger's pods, and they didn't fit the Melitta machine. Since the bag was open, I couldn't return it, so I decided to try to make a pod fit, and it did! Thirteen cups of Folger's later, and I haven't had any problems making this accomodation!
If you don't like the Melitta brand coffees, and it seems, from some of the reviews, that there are many folks who don't, try other brands using my crude product adaption method, and you should be able to make any other coffee pod product on the market fit your machine. If you then still don't like the taste, there is nothing more to try. Single service coffee machines might not be for you.