ID: B000CDHS7I-R2D1CPCXRSYUQT-A2H5QUVNOZ2E03
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Krups-FMF5-Programmable-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A2H5QUVNOZ2E03
ReviewerName: S. Cash
Date: February 4, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 1.0
Title: Beware of Krups customer service!
Content:
I purchased this machine a few years ago.  I was pleased with everything about it - so much so that when it died, I bought another.  I see from my order history I bought it in May 2008.  Immediately, I noticed that I could not get the audible alarm to turn off.  The display indicated that it was off, but it still beeped.  Minor annoyance.  In November 2008, it refused to brew, with the display indicating that it had no water in the reservoir, despite the reservoir being full.  Knowing that it was under warranty, I called and they directed me to send it in to a service center.  The $9 shipping was on me, but the repairs would be free.
I took it down to UPS, paid for a brand new box and shipping, and off it went.  The service center replaced a "fusible fuse" (!?) and sent it back to me in a ratty old box with holes in it.  I opened it, threw the box out where it got rained on, and set up my pot to brew for the next morning.  That day, it brewed one pot, then repeated the shenanigans of not recognizing that there was water in the reservoir.  That was Thanksgiving day.  The following Monday, I called again.  They said they would send me a prepaid shipping label to return it to them at their expense.  I bought another box and waited.  And waited.  Mid December, I called them and asked where the label was.  They hadn't sent it because they "didn't have my address or phone number to let me know they didn't have my address".  The ended up e-mailing me the label.  I sent it to them mid December.
10 days ago, I called to find out where my coffee make was.  The CSR indicated that the maker was going to be replaced, since it couldn't be repaired, and that it was on "pick status" to be shipped out of the warehouse.  She put a rush on it, since I'd now been without a product I paid for for 3 months.  I called today, 10 days later, to find out where that "rush" order was.  A different CSR told me it was on "pick status" to be shipped out - but she'll be happy to put it on rush status for me!  I'm now waiting for a supervisor to call me back, but I'm not holding my breath.  I did, however, verify that they have my phone number to do so, at least taking away that excuse when he doesn't.
All in all, if you can get one that works, yay you.  If not, Krups customer service ain't gonna get it for you.
UPDATE:  So, I finally received a brand new machine at the end of February '09.  After the first use, I immediately noticed that the audible alarm could not be turned off.  I did not have high hopes.  Sure enough, here it is June 8, 3 1/2 months later, and the machine is again refusing to work because it doesn't think it has water in the reservoir.
DON"T BUY THIS HUNK OF JUNK!