ID: B000IWXTY4-R2DPM0ROHJZUFC-A4QQLOW3LQC6Y
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Samsung-GX-10-Digital-18-55mm-Schneider
ReviewerID: A4QQLOW3LQC6Y
ReviewerName: Thomas Naccarato
Date: February 1, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: What a Camera! But...........
Content:
I love this thing. Fantastic camera. Takes really great images, but.....
Try finding a Samsung dealer to buy accessories! While you can use Pentax accessories, being that the camera itself is made by Pentax, and in some cases is better then the Pentax itself (operating system for example. The Samsung is different, and actually better then the Pentax)
Samsung replacement batteries for this camera? Unless you want to use a aftermarket battery, expect to pay no less then $100.00 after shipping and handling.
Samsung Battery Grip? Go on-line and read the horror stories of trying to find one--even in Europe!
Samsung-Schneider lenses?  From what I can tell, made to order, if your lucky to find one, they are almost twice the cost of a comparable Tamron lens--I think, because no one knows what the actual quality of the lenses are other then the 18-55mm that comes with it. But its a pretty decent lens.
Yes, you can find SOME items on the internet for purchase, but these items are few and far between and even hard for the people hawking them to get. Samsung two DSLR models are not even carried or represented by any store in California. (I bought my from a very good store who sold me on Samsung in Lakewood, Washington, which ironically no longer carries the Samsung DSLR models. Go figure! They like the product, but don't like dealing with the representation of the company)
Samsung needs to make up there mind whether they want to be in the DSLR market or not--and distribute these cameras via walk in consumer who want to make their purchase of such an item on sight, not unseen. While having the three-year warranty that came with the camera--one of the main selling features for me, well, I'm wondering how they would be about backing it, let alone if its worth anything.
Get with it Samsung! Your marketing and sales department is destroying your reputation! I love your camera, but honestly, if I had to do it over, I would be buying the Nikon.