ID: B000VDQ38E-R1GZLEGSAQBWYH-A1RN753I5FYKRI
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1RN753I5FYKRI
ReviewerName: Chasidy Zubler "caz"
Date: August 14, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 3.0
Title: decent, but destructive to carpet
Content:
My old vacuum quit on me, and with a st. bernard, a weimaraner, 2 rabbits and the occasional dog we watch, we needed a vacuum. We don't have a ton of money, so a dyson was not an option for us right now. This vacuum was at the top of our budget, but after reading so many great reviews on it we decided to give it a go. We just received it today, and while it was decent at picking up fur out of our area rug (only 6' X 4'), it left some fur behind. I haven't vacuumed it again. However, I expect it to pick the rest of the fur up (we have been vacuum-less for quite some time now so the fur was pretty intense). The attachments worked great on our furniture. Too bad my dog jumped on the couch as soon as I finished so I had to do it again...
I must say, though, that while using the attachments, the vacuum brush still spins, so if the vacuum is in one place on the carpet, it will destroy it. Mine destroyed a 2" x 2" area on the rug even though it was in the highest carpet setting and the rug itself is very short. When I moved the vacuum to the wood floor while using the attachments, it fell over when I walked more than 3 feet away because the vacuum hose is not light and flexible enough. I never thought I'd want more weight in a vacuum, but it needs something to keep it in place on a hard floor while the attachments are used.
Overall, it worked decently enough out of the box. I'm not impressed with the fact that my area rug is now noticably damaged beyond repair after the vacuum sitting still for about 30 seconds, but I  guess over time I'll get used to the fact that it's just different from my old dirt devil. 
All in all, I would probably not buy this again, but the attachments have proven very useful, assembly was easy, and it did a decent job of picking up hair and dust.