ID: B000I3XQNC-R8SM8XLIN19GZ-A2W9BX9RCAC4I8
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-10-1MP-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A2W9BX9RCAC4I8
ReviewerName: Victor Vasconcelos "Vic6string"
Date: March 27, 2007
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: great intro to the dslr world, or awesome point and shoot
Content:
As a father of two infants, I finally got sick of getting them to both look at the camera and smile only to suffer the dreaded shutter-lag of even the best point and shoot cameras. This is what got me to look into DSLRs. After weeks of reading reviews and researching articles, I settled on the XTi, for it's combination of features/price point. I picked it up with the kit lens and an extra battery, plus two 2gig sandisk ultra II cards and the 50mm f1.8 lens. I can't recommend the 50mm lens enough, but I already covered that in it's own review. The kit lens is not nearly as bad as some people have said. Everyone loves to trash it by comparing it to the "L" series lenses, but then that is like saying a new Nissan Maxima is crappy next to a Ferrari. The kit lens gives nice sharpness, vibrant colors, and has a focal range that nicely takes you from a little wide angle to a bit of zoom. Some people have trashed the battery life, but this camera has far exceeded any point and shoot I have ever owned, going for days without a recharge (in the 500 shot range). The camera itself is amazingly easy to use, in fact in full auto mode it is basically the best point and shoot you could ever want. If you are willing to read or learn a little, however, it can do most of the things any professional does on their cameras. You can grow into the hobby with this camera (as I am doing). It is set up to give you all the control and power you are willing to take. Add to that the extensive lineup of lenses and accessories offered by Canon and third party vendors like Sigma, Tamron and Tokina, and this camera has all the versatility, ability, and flexibility to be anything from a great point and shoot for soccer moms to a backup camera for a professional (or first serious camera for a fledgling amateur/pro).You will need a few memory cards, as it is so quick that you will find yourself taking many more shots and keeping the best ones. Nothing about this camera has been a disappointment) I give it my highest possible recommendation.