ID: B0000YTYGM-R1D8YFORM7KB9C-AZ16YKH16K3MG
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DTC-975BKN-Programmable-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: AZ16YKH16K3MG
ReviewerName: Judy Galloway
Date: September 16, 2005
Helpful: 5 of 6
Rating: 4.0
Title: So Close!!!
Content:
I bought this because I was tired of buying replacements for broken glass carafes. The other desired feature was large capacity (12 cup).  I like the appliance a lot: it definitely scores on keeping the coffee hot (with no use of electricity).
Downsides:  (1) it beeps when done brewing, and you can't turn that off (2) there is no adjustment for brewing strength, (3) the icon on the display that indicates that you have set the pot to turn on automatically is too small for us oldsters to see (there is no light in the display)and (4)the "mechanism" at the bottom of the filter holder is really poorly designed in that it consists of a weak spring and a RUBBER BAND. Once the rubber band breaks, I predict the end of the ability to pull the carafe out to pour coffee prior to the end of the brew cycle. Frankly I would expect better from this brand!
Update, November 2005.  Still love the hot coffee.  Still hate the beeping (we live in silicon valley: our house is SMALL and the beeps are LOUD).  Have had 1 case (so far!) where we inserted the basket imperfectly and had huge coffee mess (unpleasant at 4 am).
April 2008. Further update. Am now going to toss this machine. It has overflowed and ruined my cabinet for the last time.  Unless both me and my SO check the set up on the machine at night before heading off to bed it is FAR too likely to overflow. I don't know what happened last night, but it has now happened for the last time.  I will not use it on the timer--I will start it manually so I can watch it, until I can find a suitable replacement.  There are too many areas of potential problems:  Filter basket must be seated EXACTLY correctly; brew stopper / hold device must be free (move easily); carafe lid has to be screwed on exactly right and the carafe has to be situated very carefully under the brew stopper / hold device.  We are not stupid people, but this thing has defeated us once too often.  I am going to go to some brick and mortar stores to review new products, then I will likely go on line and find customer reviews (such as these!) before I purchase the next machine.  OK, done venting now. Thanks!