ID: B0002U9L12-R129RB0SCJEFE6-A2I60HCAVEF3RC
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Mr-Coffee-Thermal-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A2I60HCAVEF3RC
ReviewerName: Tiger
Date: May 11, 2006
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Keeps *Hot* & Flavor for Hours
Content:
I bought this because it was a good price for a thermal coffee pot.  I have had no problems.  I used to forget about my coffee in the kitchen and it would just burn in my old pots.  I would never drink the pot fast enough and by the time I had a second cup, it tasted terrible on my old coffee maker that had a glass pot.
TIP:  Charge your thermal pot first by filling it with hot water first (emptying after).  This is a general rule for all thermos type containers.
It really does keep my coffee steaming hot for 3-4 hours.  However, the more full it is, the longer it ratains the heat.  So if you have 1/4 the pot left, it doesn't stay warm for 4 hours in that state.  But remember that's just how any thermos probably works.  I have started a pot and forgot about it for 3 hours and it was piping hot and tasted as fresh (in my humble non-coffee finatic opinion).  It is the constant heat of glass pots on a burner that really hurts the coffee.
I really like that it doesn't spill!  My last coffee pot always spilled when pouring.  The tip of the pot works great.  By the way, you leave the lid *on* when you pour, just turn it to the open position (else it will spill).  The lid has a tight seal, you rotate it until the arrow points back to the handle (closed) which takes some effort... maybe not the best for people with arthritis.  When just brewed, you have to touch parts of the lid that just had hot coffee pouring over it, but I've never really had a problem.
For those new to thermal pots like me, there is no burner.  When it is done brewing, it just stops the water (there is no heating element in the base to start with).  To my surprise, when charged with hot water first, it held hot and fresh for a long time.