ID: B000IWXTY4-R17RUF0W9VZY3X-A3FJNA9F3FEK95
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Samsung-GX-10-Digital-18-55mm-Schneider
ReviewerID: A3FJNA9F3FEK95
ReviewerName: George E. Robertson
Date: March 9, 2008
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: GX-10 Samsung, terrific DSLR value
Content:
This is a great camera. I've been a photographer for over 40 years. I'm taking better pictures than ever before since getting it about a month ago.  I have only scratched the surface of the creative control it offers. It is big and heavy enough and has a really solid feeling build. 
Battery life is great it took me more than couple of weeks to shoot enough images to need to replace the battery with a fresh one.  I instinctively bought three batteries.  I like keeping spares on hand for any camera. If you're budget conscious  you might consider recharging between shoots with only one battery pack and just keeping the thing topped up.  It has plenty of capacity. I found I can remove and replace the SD chip or the battery even without removing the quick mounting plate for my tripod from the bottom of the GX10 body.  
At the time of purchase, the fact that this camera is such a great value for money made me worry about quality.  That worry was misplaced.  It's a great deal and a great camera.
The Kit
Nothing has been disappointing so far, other than the 18-55mm kit lens.  It simply is not good enough. I just tried it, printed some proofs and put it back in the box.   It sits on the shelf waiting for me to choose it if I decide to take pictures at a riot or during a volcanic eruption.  If you actually need this level of quality in a DSLR camera, I suggest you choose a different lens.
The great GX10 body is compatible with pretty much everything in the Pentax K mount family, and so you simply need to buy any of many of the very good to excellent lenses in that huge list.  The Anti-shake is in the camera so all of them will have the advantage of that.  You need not go to the very top of the Pentax line to assemble a really useable set up.  I settled on the F1.4 Pentax 50mm which is a very good, ultra fast, and very inexpensive portrait lens priced way below it's value.  I added  the Pentax 18-250 and the Sigma 12-24 zooms. I shoot a lot of buildings and interiors and the 12-24 gets a lot of use. These are probably not the absolute ultimate for optical quality on the Pentax and compatible w/ K mount lists, but they are more than good enough.  I am printing great images and I'm not even thinking about upgrading anything.  
If you're on a budget and need an all-around does everything pretty well one lens setup, get the Pentax 18-250 zoom.  It might be a long long time before you need anything else.  Pay attention to the manual and learn to use the software controls on the camera.  You have a lot of camera control over sharpness, color and contrast to creatively augment and moderate the products of the lens optics and their excellent coatings.  
The Body Controls and Software
The controls are logically arranged and comfortable to use.  the Software is well documented and settings are made accessible with well placed push button rocker switch and scroll wheel controls that activate logical menu groups.   You really can adjust things on the fly while shooting.  You need only a few seconds.  Changing white balance to fix the color balance to suit the weather or indoor lighting is a very quick fix.  Touch the Fn button and a couple of clicks of your thumb.  You can switch to effective WB presets for sun ,clouds, cloudy, shade,three variations for flourescents and incandescent plus a few more.  It takes much longer for me to type it here than it takes to use it even the first time.   Switching shooting modes to fix aperture or speed controlling dept of field or motion blur is also very quick and easy. 
As you learn and internalize the controls  you just get speedier and able to use more and more of the feature set.  I really like using this Camera more and more  as time passes.   
The RAW feature is easy to use, even one picture at a time.   Use it. The GX10's RAW feature offers an important window of added potential that will allow you to make the very best images this camera is capable of. 
I would buy the GX-10 again, without the 18-55 lens, with no hesitation.