ID: B000KJQ1DG-R10ZGAVZTW2OI2-A372VH1DOMHZIB
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G-Zoom-Nikkor
ReviewerID: A372VH1DOMHZIB
ReviewerName: SaM
Date: April 21, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: I WISH I COULD CHANGE MY RATING
Content:
This is the best and easiest camera I've ever owned.  My past cameras have been canon powershots which take great pictures and are small and compact but I wanted to move up to a camera that would take better pictures in low light situations with my kids.  ie in the gym, on stage at school events, etc.  this takes awesome pictures all the time!  And the ability to switch out the lens gives me just enough creative control that I can really have fun while getting a great shot.  I can zoom and get a great close-up too which I never could with my powershot...  I have several friends who have the D80 and D90.  They struggle with the settings and often can't figure out why they can't get a good shot while I'm clicking away!  This is definitely a case of "less is more".  I love this camera and can't recommend it highly enough.  
UPDATE: It's so sad.  I was the biggest fan of this camera when I first got it.  I raved about how wonderful it was and my friends with the D80 and higher were amazed at the great pictures I was getting.  Many times I got the picture and they did not!  about 4 months into it the camera started to jam.  At first I was perplexed and went online and found others with the same problem.  Some said when the shutter button locks you can take the battery out and put it back in and it will work after that.  True but I miss the photo op doing this.  Eventually I shipped it in for a repair and paid for shipping and insurance as Nikon requests.  I received the camera back after several weeks only to find out "they couldn't reproduce the problem." (????)  Since then, the problem only seems to have gotten worse.  I did more research and found out it most likely is a focus issue.  I would agree as I can usually take a long range pic but once I move the lens for a tighter shot the camera won't shoot.  My finger hurts trying to get it to shoot!  I've had friends and family all play with it to see if they can figure out the problem but they just shake their heads.  I'm so disappointed and frustrated with Nikon.  I thought I had found the dream camera.  Cannot recommend it though as I've gone from being the amateur photog at family events to being the one mumbling about missing another great shot.
Update 3/23/10  I finally figured out the problem.  I found that if the camera locks up, I just need to jiggle the lens close to the body of the camera and it will correct itself.  It happens with both of my lens' so it must be a problem with the camera itself.  I just wish they could have fixed it when it was in for repair while under the warranty period.