ID: B000HE8T9I-R3TM2WFWRLHRRP-A3U6ZDWHM45ELG
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Infinity-Upright-Vac-2d-NV30
ReviewerID: A3U6ZDWHM45ELG
ReviewerName: S. Wilkins
Date: October 1, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: What's the problem???
Content:
I've read some of the reviews here, and can't understand why all the bellyaching.  We've had our Infinity for almost two years, and love it.  That thing will suck the carpet up off of the floor!  I, unlike some of the others, have no problem cleaning out the small sponge HEPA filter.  You get two of each with the machine, so you can wash one and have one ready to replace it with.  It beats the dickens out of trying to find replacements, like I used to with our Hoover.  Oh, and the same with another one we had one time, but I don't remember what brand it was.
Sure, it can be a little sluggish to push, and pull, but the suction is one thing that makes it like that.  Do what I do; extend the handle tube out as far as it will go.  I'm tall, and this makes it easier on my bad back.  Also, it gives you more leverage.
Just this morning I cleaned it out real good and replaced the belt.  I've found that, although the manufacturer recommends cleaning the cyclone chamber every other time you use it, or something like that, you don't have to.  With two dogs, and two cats in the house, I suck up enough hair to knit a sweater.  I think that most of the complaints I've seen, among these critiques, come from people who don't expect to have to do anything but plug it up and go.  Well, folks, things get dirty and need to be cleaned.  It's no big deal!  Just "man up," and git 'er done!
In closing, I'd like to say that, should this one wear out, tear up, or generally just go South, I'll be right back at the store to buy another one.  In 45 years of marriage, my wife and I must have owned twenty or thirty vacuum cleaners, including two Kirby's, and an Oreck (both of these brands are insanely overpriced, but you knew that, didn't you?).  This vacuum beats them hands down!  I've never seen a vacuum perform as powerfully, yet cost as little.  I bought mine at Wal*Mart, and I think I got it for about $159.99, or something like that.  That was two years ago, so they're probably more by now.  Isn't everything else?
Believe me, if I'm going to take the time to write this much about a product, you'd better believe that I'm telling it like it is.  Go get one!  You won't be sorry.....