ID: B000JNYWBG-R1SMRTXWXBQCKV-A2WCFDOCS73PNB
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-touch-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A2WCFDOCS73PNB
ReviewerName: Gadgetman "gadgetman7"
Date: October 13, 2007
Helpful: 14 of 15
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Gadget
Content:
This is another technological marvel from Apple. I was quite impressed with the packed features and quality of the design of the iPod touch. On top of the great sound quality, what impressed me most is the quality of the video display. It provides sharp and vivid color with better than expected resolution. The internet browser is a fully functional one with Java enabled which allows us to browse most of the web sites. It also formats the web pages nicely and we could easily zoom in the contents by "pinching" on the screen. The interface to YouTube was also nicely designed and it downloads the contents rather quickly. It also allows you to get to the most viewed, featured, and search/bookmark your favorite ones.
Here are some of the minor issues :
- there aren't a lot of accessories available (yet). The iPod touch is actually smaller in size than the iPhone so the iPhone accessories including protective cases won't fit nicely.
- the keypad is pretty small and would need some "training" to get used to it. It does, however, highlight the key that iPod sensed so that you would know if you pressed the correct key before releasing your finger.
- the slide bar for the video playing is not very sensitive which makes it difficult to navigate through different sessions of the movies. This could be a problem if you are watching some long movies and wanted to get to a particular scene. The fast forward feature works well but you don't have much control on the forwarding speed.
- you cannot delete pictures through the iPod and it has to be removed through the iTunes interface. However, you could delete videos through iPod touch.
- there are no games available (yet)
All-in-all, this is one nice gadget that you would be impressed and enjoy.