ID: B00005IBX9-R1L3BP4WZ7X5JT-A51QW9KI70Q04
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1200-Central-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A51QW9KI70Q04
ReviewerName: Richw "Rliege"
Date: April 14, 2003
Helpful: 8 of 11
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good and bad
Content:
UPDATE:  2/13/2009 I've made 8-12 cups of coffee in this everyday since I bought it. It's still working great and making excellent coffee. No failure of any kind and the cleaning light hasn't come on yet. :-)
4/15/2003
The good:
I've had this coffee maker for 3 months now, and it gets used every day. It makes great coffee, looks nice, very quiet, and has some nice features. I especially like the timer to have the coffee ready when I come down in the morning.  It makes up to 12 cups, but makes 6 just as well. I like the filter holder that comes out so you don't drip on the counter or floor. (Make sure to push it down until it slightly snaps down or the lid won't close.) Some have complained that the condensation on the lid drips on the counter. I found that if you just open it about a third of the way, pause for a couple of seconds, remove the filter holder, and put the lid down again you don't get the drip. My old Braun pumped out a lot of steam at the end of the perk. This doesn't do that. Steam has to go somewhere, so it stays inside the lid and condenses back into water vapor.
Some have complained about the cone filter, but I used to have a Braun and I'm used to it. I like them better than the basket filters because they keep the wet coffee inside better making clean up easier (pinch it shut and the coffee grounds stay inside) and it uses less coffee. Yes you have to fold the filter to fit the cone. Big deal, an extra 3 seconds out of my day for some really good coffee. The carafe is an easy pour and fits the hand well; no drips. The clock is small, but then it's just there for the timer. You want a kitchen clock, buy a kitchen clock. My stove and microwave both have clocks. I know what time it is in my kitchen.
The bad:
It fits neatly on the back of the counter, but height is a problem. I have to pull it out to put in the water, filter and coffee. Pouring the water in became a real challenge, and my biggest complaint. The inside is black with a stair step level indicator. I'm short (5'7") and it's hard for me to see down inside the water reservoir. Pouring from the carafe was impossible. I had to move the carafe to see where the level was. I solved the problem by using a small plastic pitcher, which I marked for both 6 and 12 cups. I would like to see the reservoir marked by an internal indicator of some sort.
The real test:
To me the real test is, if I knew then, what I know now, would I still buy it. Yes I would. If there was an external indicator I'd give it 5 stars, but I'd still buy it.