ID: B000IHN8AO-R2J2QAJ8LM0VN1-ABIVGWHJ31GUP
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-10-2MP-Digital-Camera-Reduction
ReviewerID: ABIVGWHJ31GUP
ReviewerName: Lens Painter
Date: October 12, 2007
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: I need another one and another one.
Content:
Well, I'm sure to attract comments by saying this, but, I sold all my Bronica and Nikon equipment and bought the k10d after much research.  There are many long, and good reviews here, but I'm going to make this short.  First, the bad:  the anti-dust sensor is more gimmick than necessity.  There is dust and then there's sticky dust, and living where dust and dirt are a way of life, I can say the dust removal upon starting the camera is not so great for sticky dust.  Although, there are many products to help with manually cleaning the sensor.  The LCD screen is bright, and easy to see your work, although since it came with no cover, mine is now getting scratched. Somewhat loud shutter slap, or I am just (still) not used to it.  I've noticed some color fringing when beefing up the in-camera saturation, etc. while in JPEG mode, although it is much less in RAW.   Pentax software is a joke.
The good:  weather sealing; capable outdoors (icy, dirty climb to Round Top peak, elevation 10381 ft); capable indoors; good shooting with available light; good noise reduction;  great quality pictures at high ISOs.  I like having more control on the outside of a camera, rather than hunting through a slough of menus.  Straightforward controls.  Good grip.  I like not having a bunch of amateur modes - like little symbols on the dial for macro or portrait.  I mainly shoot with Aperature Priority.  I took the view screen out the other day without much fanfare. I LOVE the center weighted and spot metering; growing up with a Spotmatic mated my love of spot metering. I like the handling of bracketing and dial to choose focusing.
What am I shooting with it?  Weddings, and people.  Outdoors and black and white, as a usuall passionate pastime.  
I plan to get two more back up k10 cameras for my bag.  Right now I'm shooting with a Tamron zoom, but that will probably change.  I'm still a believer in sinking major bucks into LENSES, not cameras.