ID: B00006WNN6-RE88UM71OM1ZD-A1FKM95YREFJZR
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-DFH132-SafeHeat-Fan-Heater
ReviewerID: A1FKM95YREFJZR
ReviewerName: M. D. Moran
Date: October 22, 2005
Helpful: 10 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: Good little heater - does the job!
Content:
I found this heater because a co-worker had one in her cubicle since our office was always hit or miss with the heat and she was always cold.  She kept it under her desk (by her feet) and you could defintely tell a difference when you walked into her cubicle.  
We have an older house that was built in 1917 and the insulation really needs to be replaced - not to mention the windows.  So the Wisconsin winters tend to chill our bones at times and I bought two for home - one for the living room, one for the bedroom.  The living room is quite large and we could probably use another one in there because you need to be pretty close to the heater to feel the warmth.  But overall, you can defintely tell a temperature difference when you walk out of the room and come back in.  So even though it's not hot hot, it's still much warmer.  As for the bedroom, it's smaller than the living room.  Because my husband gets up for work at 4am, he's in bed by 8:30 and he'll turn it on when he goes to bed.  By the time I get up there at 10:30-11:00, the room is absolutely sweltering!  It definitely helps!  
With heating costs going up so drastically this year, it makes so much more sense to heat the rooms you're in - not crank the thermostat to waste energy for the rooms you're not even in.  We have gas heat and it's sooooo much cheaper to run the electric heaters when we need them.  The DeLonghi does heat it up pretty quickly too.
I LOVE the safety features because we do have pets that could knock it over.  I also love that it's not hot to the touch - we used to have an oil heater and man, you could burn your hand pretty severely.  I hated to run it when we had company, or if the pets were out.  But the DeLonghi really gives me peace of mind and I'm currently looking for two more - one for the office and another one for the living room!  
The only issue I have are the dials - they're not easily readable.  But a thin Sharpie marker to fill in the indentations (in the plastic) for the settings solves that very nicely.