ID: B000AQSMPO-R313M6NBHY22NH-A20FH5EJRXAHL5
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-B60-Special-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing
ReviewerID: A20FH5EJRXAHL5
ReviewerName: Emma Dilemma
Date: December 20, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Makes Mornings Doable
Content:
I've never been that huge of a coffee drinker.  That was mainly because I hated making coffee.  I would spill grounds everywhere, I hated washing it, and it took so long.  i also wasted a ton of coffee even with a 4-cup coffeemaker.  All I wanted was 1 cup.  So I ended up wasting a lot of money at coffee shops.  
I've been tempted by single pod coffee makers since they started popping up on the market but never really dared to take the plunge.  After having a few cups of coffee from the Keurig I knew I had to get one.  
I've only had my Keurig for about a month now and I wonder why I waited so long.  The magic starts before I get out bed thanks to the timer that has the machine turned on and warmed up for me.  Even if I'm half asleep I can still manage to pop in a cup and press a button and get a perfect cup of coffee.  Some other reviewers said that it was too noisy but I haven't noticed any problem.  There are plenty of things in the kitchen that are much louder.  And I haven't had any neighbors complain about it yet.  I've been using the Green Mountain Nantucket Blend and the largest setting and it's perfect for me.  I don't really like dark roasts or overly strong coffee.  The GM cups are what are primarily available at my grocery store.  I also keep the Hazelnut around for my mother when she visits and she loves them.  
Another thing that I love about my Keurig is the fact that I can make hot water so quickly.  I can use it for ramen noodles and instant soup.  I also drink a lot of hot chocolate.  I know there are hot chocolate k-cups available but I like a big cup of hot chocolate and they were just too weak on the big setting.  Plus using the instant packets are a lot cheaper since it's just instant cocoa in them anyways.  I love the Celestial Seasonings Chai tea cups but again I often use Keurig just to make hot water and use my own tea bags.  
At first I was concerned about the size of the Keurig on my tiny, tiny kitchen counter but it really doesn't take up as much space as I thought it would.  Plus it's a beautiful machine and I love how the blue LED lights can lead me to it in the morning.  
I loved my Keurig so much  I ended up buying one for my parents for Christmas so I can use it whenever I visit them.  And after 54 years of marriage they can finally stop arguing over how to make the coffee.