ID: B000CS7UTY-R35GTXJ1KFASRY-ACWVSN1XXYHZ4
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Zen-Vision-Video-Player
ReviewerID: ACWVSN1XXYHZ4
ReviewerName: Suresh Chandrasekaran "C Suresh"
Date: December 19, 2006
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 4.0
Title: Want to choose this over the iPod?!
Content:
Here are the reasons why I chose mine -
- Option of an FM tuner
- Built in Microphone
- Feels more sturdy than the iPod.. the comfort feel when you hold it
- Works with Windows Media Player
- Navigating thru the player is easy for Windows users
- plays almost all standard file formats inclusing wma and wmv
When I started reading up reviews and user feedback on Creative Zen Vision:M, I did not even consider the iPod. Sure, the iPod's a hot item.. but it certainly lacks some of the additional features that make a media player complete. The FM tuner and the built in microphone are bonuses that I would not miss. You can record from FM and I love recording my one year old's voice using the built in microphone.
A car FM transmitter and a pair of portable speakers (you could even go in for the 3-piece speaker system) has made the media player inseparable from me. The sound quality is good and so is the vision clarity. It's a comfortable fit in the palm of my hand and one-hand operation is no sweat. Navigating thru the menus is a breeze.. especially if you are a windows user, you are a pro right from start.. you would know where to find what (the secret of the right-click(context) menus and the comfort of the short-cut button)!! You can sync using Windows Media Player... one stop shop for all your ripping and synchronising needs (you would still need to install the player before you can use Win Media Player, though, but can forget about the additional "tuney" softwares). 
The only reason I reduced one star from the rating was the difficulty in obtaining the accessories for this player. iPod wins on this aspect. Accessories aren't easily available for this brand and you need to hunt them down.
Well, if you need any reason to choose this over the iPod, think what good an FM tuner and a built-in microphone could do for you!