ID: B000A3WS84-R2YYZD8M38G1UK-A2YAABMT80RLYA
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Video-Playback-Black-Generation
ReviewerID: A2YAABMT80RLYA
ReviewerName: Ben Rowland
Date: June 4, 2006
Helpful: 22 of 24
Rating: 4.0
Title: A sound investment for anyone needing a new iPod.
Content:
Having spent over one year with my iPod mini, and being largely happy with it despite it's shortfalls in battery life and space, I decided to upgrade to the new fifth generation of iPod. The video option has no appeal for me, as I cannot imagine watching a TV show on the small screen, and there are few music videos that I would give more than one viewing to. As such, my review of this is based strictly on music playback performance on the 30 GB model. 
Pros:
1)	Better battery life. This is a big deal for me, as I am always out and about, with music being an important part of everyday life. My mini could manage a maximum of 4 hours, and that's with minimal song skipping. The new iPod Video certainly performs much better. Without using the backlight, the high EQ setting, and skipping songs as I please, I have managed to get an average of 10 to 12 hours out of it. 
2)	Larger capacity. I am a massive music fan, so I am pleased to have room for over 7,500 songs to have and enjoy while I'm on the go.
3)	Better screen. While it can be a little hard if you have the backlight turned off, I find the screen to be a vast improvement over the monochrome display screens on the older generations. The colors are rich and vibrant, and the blacks and browns are as sharp as you would expect from a computer screen.
4)	Sound quality remains strong. I have noticed little difference between the sound quality on my iPod mini and the iPod video, except that the latter has slightly less distortion when songs are played at high volume.
5)	Intuitive menu system. The menus are as easy to navigate as they are on the older generations, with slight improvements on the fonts and color scheme. 
6)	Slimmer design. This helps to avoid the telltale bulge that the older, thicker iPods seemed to cause. 
7)	It's eye-candy. Let's face it, iPods are becoming a fashion accessory. The black one in particular is attractive. 
Cons:
1)	The only "extras" included are the USB 2.0 cable, the earphones, and on more recent models shipped, a slipcase that will keep the iPod free of scratches and smudges...for a short while (see below.) Others items, like the belt clip, the firewire cable, and the wall adapter are not included.
2)	The shiny plastic finish attracts and alarming amount of fingerprints, smudges, and scratches, especially on the black models. The semi-soft slipcase will only go so far in protecting the iPod, so a proper case is recommended. 
3)	The "smart jack" has been removed! If you don't know the term, this is the small plug that existed next to the headphone jack on all older models. This means if you were using the remote control, iTrip, car kit, or other peripheral item, it will not work on this model.
4)	No Firewire support. The fifth generation no longer supports transferring songs via Firewire, however you can still use the cable to charge the iPod if you are using the wall plug adapter. 
5)	There is an occasional delay you might encounter when skipping songs, as the iPod is processing a large amount of data at one time, and this lasts for about 3 seconds. I have heard other say that the menus sometimes freeze up, but I have never encountered this. 
6)	The battery is apparently soldered onto the motherboard, so if you are considering doing a battery replacement yourself at some point, it may not be possible.
Considering the value in terms of price and wealth of space, the new iPod video has been a good investment. I am still in the honeymoon period with it, having only had it for about 2 months, but the performance has so far been excellent.