ID: B000FFQ4TG-R3B9I9AC8HSE0K-A2HENIL6FZVM5S
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: NHBX-B-Contemporary-10-Cup-Coffee-Brewer
ReviewerID: A2HENIL6FZVM5S
ReviewerName: subardude
Date: August 13, 2007
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Solid unit and fast brews
Content:
I have have had this coffee maker for almost a year and I like it very much. The carafe just chipped on me and I took a detour from looking on Amazon for another one to write this review. My favorite feature is the speed at which this pot brews, about a minute or so for ten cups. That is crucial for me in the mornings as I seem to be very impatient while waiting for my first cup of coffee. I like the look of the unit on my countertop as it has a relatively subtle shape and color scheme. Some of the units I looked at are trying too hard to appear like a piece of artwork on the counter, others (even those from Bunn) are too industrial for my kitchen counter. This unit strikes the right balance between form and function. Pour cold water in and your second pot is ready to brews in just a couple of minutes. I like the fact that I can pour 4 or 5 cups in and that is exactly what comes out. Some units don't operate like that. The pivoting cover is great because you can pour in the water, put the carafe in place and the brewing won't start until you swing the cover closed. Again, some units start brewing as soon as you pour the water in and you must race to get it in and get that carafe under the spout. The carafe pours without dripping down the side. I had a Mr. Coffee maker that would pour the coffee down the side of the carafe when you were pouring. That is ridiculous to me. It is as though the people who design these things never use them. The only thing I don't like about it is that the filters I buy from the store don't seem to fit very well. They only have bigger or smaller sizes than I need. The ones that came with it fit perfectly and I bet I could find the right size online or at a different store if I took the time. I guess I would also complain that the carafe shouldn't chip after a year, but who knows, maybe one of my kids was chasing the other with it and that's what caused the chip.