ID: B000UV4EUG-RERUHQ0B1N7DP-A12NR171P4H6PM
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Portable-Media-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A12NR171P4H6PM
ReviewerName: J. Thompson "jungleboy78"
Date: June 17, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Simply outstanding
Content:
Before purchasing the Creative Zen 8GB I did a lot of research online to determine what player would give me best value for money for the features that were most important to me which were, good storage capacity, ease of use, colour display and the option to store and play video. I previously owned a Creative Muvo N200 which has served me well and never left me disappointed. However, having a limited budget and knowing that this player would have to last me for several years before I consider upgrading again; I wanted to get the most bang for my hard earned bucks. So far I have not been disappointed. 
It cannot be overstated how much detail can be shown on such a small screen. The display is sharp and crystal clear. The sound quality is excellent although I will be purchasing a better set of earphones in the future as the ones the item comes with are ok for starting out but I feel the player is held back by them. 
I have had some difficulty in figuring out how to use Creative's software and I consider myself to be fairly tech savvy. The software is windows based so if you know how to handle files and move them about, you'll be fine with this. My advice to anyone having initial difficulties figuring out how to use the software is to just play around with it for a little while and you'll soon get the hang of it. 
Unfortunately, there are a lot of negative review of this player on Amazon, some of which I am sure are deserved, so I was a little nervous that I may have received a dud player. Therefore, when I first received it I immediately uploaded the software from the enclosed disc and I then downloaded the software updates from Creative's website. Once I connected and charged my player I then downloaded the latest Firmware from Creative in order to avoid any complications. Only after doing this did I transfer music onto my new player. 
So far I have had nothing but absolute joy from this little MP3 and I expect to get many, many happy years of use out it. If you are considering buying this MP3 then I highly, highly reccomend it and if you can't quite decide if its right for you then I suggest you take the plunge and get it because you won't be disappointed!