ID: B0002ZAILY-R20775MAONR51P-AO96FB7QT61TC
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-shuffle-White-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: AO96FB7QT61TC
ReviewerName: David A. Coughlin "surrealdave"
Date: February 21, 2005
Helpful: 7 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: You can't go wrong for 99 bucks....
Content:
I got the 512MB Shuffle a few days ago (finally)....After waiting for 4 weeks for Apple to ship it....It is great for what it is....A small, cheap MP3 player that you can take anywhere, and uses the great iPod software....It is good for places and activities that you would be afraid to take a regular iPod...The whole point is that it is cheap enough to be expendable....Get a regular iPod, add case, extended warranty, tax etc. and all of a sudden you are talking 400 or 500 bucks.. At that price, you are not going to be taking it to the gym, out in the snow or rain, throwing it in a backpack with other items etc..This you can..It's 99 bucks and small...No need for a case, an arm band, an extended warranty (because of the poor quality of the iPod battery).You can take the Shuffle anywhere, wear it under a coat in foul weather, let it receive bumps and bruises...If the battery dies in 3 years, then so what! It cost you 33 bucks a year....The Shuffle does sound great, and the software for it is nice and simple....Other MP3 players may have an LCD screen, a microphone, radio etc. but their software is not going to be as easy to use as the iPod software which takes only an hour or two to get the hang of....A tiny LCD screen is probably going to be more hassle than its worth....And the whole point is for the Shuffle to be simple and inexpensive....Something to take to the gym or work....You are not going to be taking it on a trip to Antarctica, or storing your whole music library on it, all cross-referenced... That's what a regular iPod for! The Shuffle is for environments where you wouldn't take a regular iPod....It only takes a couple of minutes to install your music on the Shuffle...You can play the songs in order, and skip to the next song in the list...You don't need an LCD for 100 songs that you choose to download to the Shuffle....The only drawbacks that I have found to the Shuffle is it can be easy to lose the cap and lanyard when the iPod is plugged into the computer....The ear buds sound great but are uncomfortable....The Shuffle might not be ideal for audio books that are one, single file....If you go to another song, you will lose your place in the audio book, and the fast forward feature on the Shuffle doesn't go too fast....Do you want to wade through an hour or three of narration until you get back to the right spot on the audio book? I also bought the 30 dollar optional Dock for the Shuffle.
I didn't want to be plugging and unplugging into my computer's USB port 10 times every week....The connector on the Shuffle sticks out and looks easy to break off....It is easier and safer to plug and unplug it from the optional Dock instead...It provides a place for the Shuffle to stand, and charge....And I don't like plugging and unplugging something into my 2,000 dollar computer every day....If something is going to break, it will be the 30 dollar Dock, not the USB port on my computer.....