ID: B000V5P90K-R1PK2AC2OPAK4J-ATOW6C1SUJGP5
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-40D-10-1MP-Digital-Body
ReviewerID: ATOW6C1SUJGP5
ReviewerName: Robert N. James
Date: March 15, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Camera
Content:
I wanted to purchase a digital SLR. Many years ago I had purchased a Canon film SLR which was the A-1. I was very satisfied with it and now it is obsolete and you can't even find lenses that will fit. Long discontinued. I decided to stick with Canon. At first I was looking at the Digital Rebel XTi. Then Canon released the update to the 30d. I saw numerous raves about the 40d. Amazon had the camera with a kit lens, the 28-135 3.5-5.6 IS USM lens. I decided to upgrade my choice and bought this camera. I haven't regretted my choice.
I am a rank novice and know little about digital photography but this camera will help you immensely with its many program modes. The wonderful thing about digital photography which has been mentioned many times, you take a bad picture you erase it. And its so true. Study your manual and experiment and you will be taking wonderful photos before long. 
The 40d is bigger than the Rebel and much studier. It's body is magnesium alloy which makes it heavier but its not objectionable. This is a "crop camera" with a focal factor of 1.6. This helps with telephoto but wide angle hurts as it magnifies your focal length by 1.6. It accepts both EF and EF-S lenses. 
I will give you an example. I bought the camera in November 2007. This February a co-worker and friend asked me to come to their daughter's wedding just to take snapshots. They had hired a wedding photographer. I said I will but I didn't know how the pictures will turn out as I was still learning how to use the thing. No matter they said, we have a photographer hired anyway. I took the camera, the 28-135 kit kens and a 580EX II Speedlite. I let the camera and the flash make most of the decisions concerning settings and using techniques I had remembered from my film SLR days I made about 175 various shots. Never done a wedding in my life. To my amazement the majority of the shots were great. So much so the parents of the bride told me that my snapshots were on par with the professional they had hired. No not all were good. There were lighting miscues. The reception was under florescent lighting and I overlooked that fact with camera settings. Post processing helped a lot.
All in all I am very pleased with this camera and would recommend it to anyone who is in the market for a digital SLR camera that is not a full frame camera. One other point, if you have a Nikon or a Canon camera look into DxO post processing software. It matches the particular camera body and particular lens to process the image. It is a great program especially if you shoot with the RAW format. 
Bob James