ID: B00063ZVK0-R2XH0XN319HR2Y-A3NY8KKQI3DLW3
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Vornado-EH1-0028-06-Digital-Vortex-Heater
ReviewerID: A3NY8KKQI3DLW3
ReviewerName: Michael S. Urvan
Date: March 3, 2003
Helpful: 41 of 41
Rating: 5.0
Title: The best heater I have ever had
Content:
I have owned several different space heaters from different manufacturers over the past 5 years or so, and this is the best by far. Most ceramic heaters generate too much heat in a small area and they get hot enough to start fires. The ceramic heaters I have used have melted parts of my desk or chair, they are a real fire or burn hazard. Even though they have fans inside to blow the heat, the heated air is so hot that it never gets more than a few inches in front of the heater before rising straight up. You are always either freezing cold or in fear of being burned depending on hwo many inches you place it from you. Oil heaters are nice but they have a terrible smell (supposedly this goes away) and they do not have a way to spread the heat at all.The Vortex heater has a medium sized fan with a small wire heating element behind it. It's very much like the way a hair dryer works to heat air. This heater generates lots of air flow, more like a regular fan, while heating the air. You can place this heater 6 feet away and you will still feel a warm breeze from it.The vortex heater is VERY quiet, and the front of the heater does not get hot enough to burn you. I also use this heater a quiet personal fan for the summer time. If you set the FAN switch to ON, the heat switch to LOW and the thermostat all the way down, it will blow air but not stop heating it.The plug and power cord on the heater does not get hot like other heaters, but remember never cover the power cord on any space heater or high-powered appliance because it does still generate some heat.The heater does a good job of detecting the temperature of the room and will turn off when it reaches the desired temperature setting. The heater will turn off if tipped over. If the heater is bumped it turns off for a second. However, if you wanted to place this heater on an angled surface it will still work. Whatever the mechanism it has, it allows it to be angled but not tipped over all the way or bumped suddenly. The heater does not have a way to aim it up or down. It is preconfigured to blow at a very slight upward angle. I have been using this heater to heat my 7 month old son's play area recently. He started crawling and the front of the design on the heater is just barely large enough to allow his tiny little fingers to poke into the front of the heater and get hit by the fan (this has never happened but at the largest part of the gaps in the front of the unit, it would be possible). Other than that, this heater is safer for children because neither the air nor the front of the heater gets hot. I would say that in a few more months his fingers will be too large to poke through. If this heater had the fine wire mesh front like most other heaters, it would be perfect.The vortex heater is a little more expensive than other heaters, but it is well worth the extra money. I have had this heater for about 2 or more years and it works GREAT!