ID: B0007QKN22-R2V2ILU2VF2BUH-A24957HBA987VN
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-f3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A24957HBA987VN
ReviewerName: C. Moore "The Authorguy"
Date: January 18, 2006
Helpful: 154 of 162
Rating: 3.0
Title: Handles Great, Autofocus just not there
Content:
First, a couple of things. 
I wanted this camera to be great. I researched all the consumer dSLRs and decided on the XT Rebel 350 because of it's size and 8MP CCD, plus, I'd had two Canon point and shoot digitals that were fantastic. 
I've been taking pictures on a semi-professtional level for thirty years and I attended Brooks Institute of Photography, so I sort of know what I'm doing. 
Bought the Rebel XT at a local store in San Francisco, along with the Canon 28-200 Zoom. Immediately went up to Chinatown to shoot pictures of the Festival of the Harvest Moon with my wife, who was using her Nikon D70 with the Nikon 28-200.
Shot pictures all day, and absolutely loved the way the XT handled. It was very intuitive, fast, had a bright viewfinder -- I couldn't have been happier. 
Then, we got home and looked at the pictures. I'd shot mostly on automatic, or shutter priority all day, with shutter speeds above 250th of a second. 
Bottom line, my wife's pictures were crystal clear, popped really, and mine of the same or similar subjects were just a tad fuzzy. You couldn't tell at 5x7 or so, but when you brought it up to 8x10  or above the difference was obvious. I checked the historgram on the shots, and they were made at nearly the same settings. Couldn't be, right? After all, the Nikon is only 6 MP, the Canon 8MP. 
So I put both cameras on a tripod, pointed them at a brick wall with a sign about 100 feet away, set everything the same on the cameras, and low and behold, same fuzziness. 
I took the Canon back the next day and traded it in on a D70. Now, maybe I got a bad lense, or a camera where the auto-focus was tweaked, but I couldn't afford the time to test it out again and again. I knew the Nikon would work, and it did (and does). 
Since then, I've talked to friends, professionals, who say that the XT is known to have auto-focus "issues".  This seems to be inconsistent, with some reviewers being delighted by the camera, others having a little problem.
As I said above, the camera handles really well, intuitively, and   I actually like the compact size (some SLR users like a heavier camera). I may have gotten a lemon, but if you are going to need to depend on getting sharp pictures and can't go back for reshoots, I'd step up to the Canon D20 or go with a Nikon dSLR.