ID: B000X1T3IQ-R13DXB1QXB6C0J-AHI0IFF96XB2M
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-10-1MP-Digital-Mechanical-Stabilization
ReviewerID: AHI0IFF96XB2M
ReviewerName: I. Davis "view my photos @ www.flickr.com/id510"
Date: May 26, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: I Absolutely Love This Camera
Content:
Before I start the review: I was initially in the market for the E-30, but a special deal on the internet through Dodd Camera allowed me to get the E-3 for only $800, I could NOT pass up that deal!
The Olympus E-3 is a fantastic product. When I was considering purchasing one, I had heard many complaints online in different forums whom had many members who admittedly have never used a 4/3 camera, just heard about them. Before using the E-3, I was (and still am) a user of the Olympus E-520 camera which gave me excellent results, but had some minor limitations that made me want to upgrade. First is the viewfinder. In the E-520, the viewfinder is NOT bad at all, like many would lead you to believe. I found that attaching the Olympus ME-1 eyecup to my E-520 helped, but I can see how this could pose a problem with people who wear glasses. The E-3 addresses this with the best viewfinder the 4/3 system has ever seen. Much larger & brighter, I find myself doing much manual focusing with it, whereas I did have a tendency to rely on the AF performance of the E-520.
The focusing speed of this camera is incredibly fast with SWD lenses, and very fast with my other High Grade lenses. It is important to note that low light situations have caused the camera to hunt at times. The AF assist of my Metz 58 flash helps to quickly bring the image into focus when I shoot at low light venues such as performances or night time portraits. In good lighting conditions, the focusing is almost instant, in lower light, it is fast, just not as fast as some users might think when they hear "World's Fastest AF".
Lastly, the noise performance. The camera produces great results up until about iso 800+. Images get noisy in the higher settings, BUT THIS IS NOTHING THAT CAN'T BE CLEANED UP IN POST PRODUCTION! Also, iso 3200 images retain a lot of detail and the DR performance is nice as well. When I want to clean up images, I usually use Nik Software's Dfine 2.0 and this has worked excellent in reducing noise but not smearing the details & making the image look smeared when viewed close up. This software with this camera are perfect for each other.
Who would I recommend this camera to?: Those who have film or digital slr experience, those who don't find noise at higher iso settings to be a major issue, those who want to use fantastic lenses, I could go on. There are many good reasons to pick this camera up if you are interested in the 4/3 system. IF you are new to shooting, some of the settings may confuse you. I had no problem adjusting to the camera ergonomics, but I had been studying the button layout months before purchasing. If you are just shooting jpeg, using high iso settings and don't plan on using any post production software, you may want to look elsewhere as the other manufacturers produce excellent cameras around this price range.
All that said, I believe this is the perfect camera for ME and I will be spending much time with it. I highly recommend you at least give it a try if you already own an E-System camera and are looking to upgrade. I haven't tested the weather sealing capability yet, but will be eventually when I decide to shoot in challenging conditions.
My images taken with this camera & the E-520 are available to view at www.flickr.com/photos/id510
Thank You