ID: B000AAWEJU-R10Y69RSNMUOJH-A1SYLII0808HD6
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-Carina-Canister-Vacuum-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1SYLII0808HD6
ReviewerName: M. Allen Greenbaum
Date: March 4, 2006
Helpful: 83 of 83
Rating: 5.0
Title: Let a Miele Be Your Umbrella!
Content:
It's not like me to write a rave about a vacuum cleaner, let alone actually use one (except when prompted to by partners or pangs of conscience).  However, the minute I Miele'd the rugs, I knew I could never go back to the lackluster performance of cheaper machines. That's just how superior the Miele is, even this, one of the most affordable in their line. It's worth the extra $150 or so compared to top models from Eureka, Hoover, and other popular brands. There's so much going for this model that brevity demands I simply enumerate it's many advantages.
Power:  There are six easily adjustable power levels. The highest is an incredible 1,200 watts--plenty to pick up old debris stubbornly clinging to home base. By attaching the long crevice tool you can wedge the wand between rug and wall and pick up generations of dirt--this is no time to get sentimental. The lower power setting are also useful, witht the duster attachment you can go over framed pictures, curtains, etc. without fear that the pictures will fall down or that the curtains or etc. will wind up sucked inside the hose. There's high power, but there's also non-gimmicky variable power.
Mobility:  I'm a novice at using a canister vacuum, so I was surprised at how easily the unit followed me the room around like a low-tech robot. You may need to lift it when moving from one room to another, and the Miele is relatively light (compare it to the Dyson, for example) and well-balanced.  The standard rectangular head also shows great angular mobility to vacuum hard-to-reach areas.  It adds up to a greater effective cleaning area; you'll get closer to walls and curved objects.  It's the large appliance equivalent of a close shave.  
The Other Stuff:  I won't repeat all the information in the product description above except to confirm that the components work (e.g., the filtering system) and the features aren't mere gimmicks.  The bag changes more easily than in other vacuums, the useful tools attach to the telescoping steel wand, the electric cord retracts completely and semi-automatically, and is is much quieter than any other v.c. I've used.  Yes, the cleaning head doubles as a combo rug/floor cleaner, but unlike the other reviewer, I found that the Miele performed superbly (even with dog fur) on both surfaces without needing rotating brushes.  (The head adjusts to floors by retracting some stiff but fairly short non-rotating brushes.) If you need prefer however, you can buy a rotating brush head for about $100 (http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000AMEKHW/ ref=pd_sim_k_2/103-7519344-0327817?%5Fencoding=UTF8&v=glance&n=284507).  That costs approximately as much as a model that comes with the "power brush," so you could experiment without it first. If money is no object, then go ahead and get the other model, and send me one too...
Problems:  Not many, although I've had it a very short time, and will update this review if it develops any. However, I wish the on/off button were located on the wand rather than on the trailing canister.  Furthermore, you're supposed to control power by stepping on the canister's large metallic plate, but this proved somewhat clumsy and slippery when not wearing your shoes.  
I'm so pleased with the Miele that I'm taking a break from my usual reviews of books and music to recommend it.  A Miele can cost over $1,000, but I suspect that most people won't need these more expensive versions. However, one may want to compare models on the web to find right one for you. I'm actually looking forward to using it tomorrow...the fresher air, cleaner house, and wow factor are worth it.