ID: B00000JGRS-RNJ0VXEVABOVO-A2WUAVEY5ZMJAN
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-300BK-Automatic-10-Cup-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A2WUAVEY5ZMJAN
ReviewerName: IL Vet Tech "Mrs. Norbie"
Date: January 13, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 2.0
Title: Ok coffee, but somewhat tedious
Content:
My husband and I have had the Cuisinart DGB-300BK for only about four months, so I feel I cannot comment on the durability at this time. But when I put the coffee maker together originally, the different parts associated with the grinder/filter and basket worried me a little (as far as durability). If the parts are not aligned properly in the reservoir, it will not brew; or worse will leak brewed coffee all over your counter top. I do agree that the grinder basket size does limit the amount of beans you can put in, and therefore the strength of the coffee. If you like strong coffee (like the reviewer from New Orleans) and you would like to make a 10 cup pot, I do not think you will be able to make it as strong as you would like. As with other reviewers, I do find that there is alot of ground coffee left in the grinder and filter basket after brewing , and that I am going through alot of coffee beans. Like most users, I am usually in a hurry when making coffee, so am unable to completely dry the three different parts before brewing. I agree that cleaning the three different internal parts is somewhat tedious; but if done the night before not too much of a big deal. Before buying, you should be aware that there is more daily cleaning than traditional coffee makers.
I do find that the warming plate does keep the coffee pretty hot, I have mine turned up all the way. I have noted that this seems to be a complaint that multiple folks have had (coffee too cool.) Perhaps my previous machines had very poor warming plates.
The one thing that I am not reading on other reviews that happens to my machine is this: sometimes it does not utilize all of the water to brew the coffee. Even when the 'Coffee Bar Flavor System Dial' is set to 10 or is off, sometimes there are about 4 cups of water left in the machine. Maybe it is clogged...? It still seems to brew rather weak coffee when it does this as well.
The other thing is that the carafe does not seem to sit properly against the basket-so it drips VERY slowly when brewing. (Even when it seems to be sitting on the warming plate correctly.) I have tried to investigate/fix this by making sure the basket is in the machine all the way. It only seems to drip properly if the carafe is held against the little brew-pause mechanism under the basket. A few times it has even had  a hard time sensing that the carafe was not there when I have poured coffee mid-brew, and it kept on dripping (which we all know from older makers is a complete pain....we want our coffee ASAP without it making a huge mess on the warming plate!)
All in all, I think that I will look for a different model when this kicks the bucket (which may be sooner than later from what I'm reading.)
It brews a decent cup of coffee, but I have not been able get it strong enough for my taste.