ID: B000NVXF30-R3TDSU2Z8UA2NR-ABDTWCN4G35AD
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Digital-Stabilization-14-42mm-40-150mm
ReviewerID: ABDTWCN4G35AD
ReviewerName: M. Ward
Date: April 12, 2008
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Evolt E-510
Content:
I looked at a lot of reviews before deciding on this camera. One factor was that I have a few 'legacy lenses' from my traditional 35mm film camera that I wanted to be able to use. I have an old Konica lens that I can mod to fit, and can't wait to try it. They do also make several adapters so you can use the older lenses, in either manual or aperture priority (which I'd guess the former would be why many would turn to a DSLR instead of a higher end P&S in the first place). 
I like the way the controls are set up (I had an older Olympus digital camera, and my last one was a Fuji Finepix s3100 which both were good at what they did - but I wanted more control over exposure). It did not take long to get used to the controls, maybe because I've had other cameras that were similar in set up, but it feels 'natural' to me now, and it didn't take long. There are many things you can adjust to your liking, and you really should read the manual to get the most out of the camera. I tried to dive in head first without reading it first, but there is so much that you can do with this camera, that you really should read it before you go testing it out, as it will make more sense and what you can do with it.
I tweaked some of the settings (for noise and IS and such - you can even customize some minor things - wheel direction and some other things) and could not be happier with the results. After taking a couple of days to 'play around' with the settings, and to get a feel for it, I am perfectly content with this camera. 
I also think the feel in-hand is also very nice. It is neither too small (I've heard complaints of other Olympus models being too small for comfort) nor is it too heavy. The body size is maybe half an inch smaller than my 35mm, which is really not that much of a difference to me. The hand grip is also a good size, and the buttons you might need most often are within easy reach. I have medium-smallish hands, and it does not feel too big or awkward for me. I think with medium to large hands you could reach all of them (the AEL/AFL, IS and the live view) without looking/holding it differently.  The ones I need more often are all within easy reach. I think the hand grip is a size that would fit a larger range of hand size, as this one is a bit longer than the E-400 series that I've seen, so I think the change in size/grip may have been a result of feedback from earlier models that were reported to be too cramped. 
It is a great camera, and you can't even find 'live view' on comparable cameras, which I admit I haven't really used, but it comes in handy for low light focusing, and making sure you have your focus where you want it for critical images. 
It's got great options and the quality you get for the price can't be beat.