ID: B000I1YWLY-R1UN989UZ97X6Q-A3G814PTLWLOLR
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL-Bagless-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A3G814PTLWLOLR
ReviewerName: British Bird
Date: December 17, 2006
Helpful: 33 of 33
Rating: 5.0
Title: I thought my carpets were clean.
Content:
Until I purchased this!  This nifty little vacuum achieves what no other vacuum can.  It's powerful and robust yet light to handle.  I was thinking about buying a Dyson, but they are so heavy to push around and I needed a flexible power head that can reach under furniture.  The power head lays almost completely flat and slides easily under beds, sofa's and other furniture.  All of the components are tough yet light.  The hose is excellent and the telescopic part is made from aluminum, it's very solid.  
It comes with a crevice tool and a dusting brush which are located on the hose handle and a separate  well made hard floor brush that has real bristles and wheels, and an upholstery brush.  The fact that I don't have to pick fluff and dust off the filter is a real plus, the bagless models are usually so annoying for that reason.  This vacuum cleans its own filter with a simple maneuver.  
The controls are located on the hose handle and are push buttons not switches, there are 3, the on/off, bare floor/carpet and suction control of which there are 2 levels.  There are two lighted (a cool neon blue!) indicators on the canister for suction level and filter cleaning.  
It is very easy to lift off the dust container and you press a lever to empty it out.  I found it better to do this without shaking or tapping the  dust out too much as it can cloud out all over the container if you are not careful, I then just dusted the lid and body with a swifer duster to clean up the fine dust.  
I was quite shocked at what the cleaner picked up, it seemed to remove dirt that was really embedded in my medium pile carpet and I had been vacuuming regularly with my Kenmoore.  
The only problem I have is that the power head is noisy, but I can forgive that because it works hard.  The canister itself is not noisy when you switch to bare floor it is quieter than average.  Also, I am not sure that the power head picks up that well on the bare floor option, I got a better result using the bare floor brush.  
All round a super stylish high tech piece of Swedish engineering.  It is expensive, but you are buying the Rolls Royce of vacuum cleaners.