ID: B0009JPRE6-RU5OVCTOFJGO6-A3CJ7MHAS9IMAM
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-Camera-18-70mm-Nikkor
ReviewerID: A3CJ7MHAS9IMAM
ReviewerName: Dom Miliano
Date: December 11, 2005
Helpful: 39 of 40
Rating: 5.0
Title: Mega Pixels, Smega Pixels - The Camera Just Works
Content:
I was shooting pictures of a BMW X3 for a magazine test-drive article.  My San Francisco-based editor was along for the ride. When I pulled out my Canon EOS 1V, she exclaimed, "You still shooting film?" Yes, I am. Or more accurately, was. For even a slow-moving guy like me, when fate steps in to help me make the decision, I get it. 
Here's the deal: My favorite film - Fuji Velvia 50 - was discontinued.  My E-6 film processor went out of business. A friend - a Nikon Tech Rep - spent an hour convincing me that digital was the best way to go for my magazine work. Finally, he said that the Nikon D70s was the sweet spot when you consider price, quality and performance. Bottom line, this is the camera to have if I was going to dip my toe in the digital water. When I expressed a concern about the number of megapixels, he made a point that 6 megapixels was all I needed. I was still worried but he showed me sample prints and I was convinced.  Oh yeah, my editor has the old Nikon D70 and she has shot several covers with it and lots of full page shots. They too looked good so I placed my order for a D70s.
I have just received it so I don't have a lot to say about the camera except that it feels great in my hand. The manual is very well written. The controls are just where they need to be - experienced Nikon users will feel at home immediately. 
Another selling point - It uses compact flash cards so I can share them with my Canon point-and-shoots. In fact, I almost bought the D50 - a good camera that's a lot cheaper - but it uses the SD format cards. An expense that would blow the savings away as soon as I bought a couple of 1 gig cards.
The built-in flash is a bit weak for pro use but since it's there, I don't have to buy a new flash just yet.
I plan to use the D70s in 2006 for all my magazine work and thereby save its cost in film and procesing.  If it all works out as planned, I'll upgrade to the D200 when the price drops a bit on that camera and then use this one as my backup.
Five stars for now - we'll see later.   
Update - I shot at the Cloisters in NYC on Christmas Eve.  The camera was easy to handle. The pictures had good color. Afterward, I made a large blow up (8X12) from a JPEG (Fine, Large) and the picture was quite sharp and had good tonal range. 
Still looking good.   
Second Update - A shot I took with the D70s with a Nikon 80-200 f:2.8 just was published as the cover picture and it's amazing. Seriously sharp, good color and (dare I say) better than film. And that's with just 6 megapixels.  I believe that most readers (meaning all non-pros AND many profesionals) would find this camera all you need and more.
One or two minor gripes after 6 months of hard use and a few raves. The motor drive is too slow for motorsports - 3 fps is not enough. The build-in flash is convenient but with my 20-35 F:2.8 on the camera, anything shot close-up gets a nasty shadow. 
     
The battery still rocks - hundreds of shots and no charge needed. 
As for storage - with a 2 Gig card, it's like 10 rolls of film in the camera. Two 2 Gig cards and you could do a week's vacation without recharging and downloading. 
I have 3 articles I wrote and illustrated with this camera coming out in a couple of weeks. More on the camera then.
PS - The new Nikon N80 is a 10MP camera (like the D200) - that tells me that the D70s is not long for this world. Discount / closeout / good used camera buys are sure to follow.