ID: B000UWF5DU-R312NOTB1LF779-A3LXOSTIZSH820
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-CMD3500MBT-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3LXOSTIZSH820
ReviewerName: Tom Mott
Date: February 1, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Decent coffemaker at a good price
Content:
We've had this about a month and for our needs it works great. It's a straightforward 8-cup automatic drip coffeemaker with a thermal carafe. Easy to use, does exactly what you expect. 
The thermal carafe doesn't actually keep the coffee hot for hours on end. But after breaking several glass carafes in our household, we're happy to make the switch to an unbreakable steel one. 
You're NOT going to get a truly amazing Peet's Coffee cup of coffee out of it because it doesn't get the water hot enough for professional-quality extraction. But for that "standard" every day cup of coffee most of us are used to brewing at home, it's perfect. 
PROS: 
1. Easy to use
2. Unbreakable carafe. 
3. Thermal carafe means it shuts off after brewing: saving energy *and* not "cooking" your coffee. 
4. I like that it has a button to set the Brew Strength. We switched it from medium to strong and it actually worked; presumably, it just slows down the the brew cycle a bit. 
CONS:
1. It emits 4 beeps when it's done brewing. Not super loud, but it's an unnecessary feature. 
2. Glowing blue lights on unit are always on. I find this really annoying: at night, it bathes our kitchen in a bluish glow. The only way to turn off the glowing blue lights would be to unplug the unit, but then you wouldn't be able to use the timer feature to auto brew a pot in the morning.
3. The thermal carafe keeps coffee hot for maybe 30-40 minutes: That's more than enough for our needs, but don't plan to make one pot of coffee in the morning and be able to pour yourself a hot cup 2-3 hours later. Of course, the more coffee that's in the pot, the hotter it will stay. When you get down to that last cup or so, it cools down pretty quickly. 
4. Sometimes at the end of the brew cycle, there's an odd clicking sound as the last of the water runs through the system. Really not bad, and it's nothing like the loud volcanic gurgling some automatic drip machines make. 
NOTE: At first, i bought a $200 Capresso unit. After a week of nothing but botched cups of coffee (I think it was a defective unit) I returned it and got this much cheaper unit instead. Couldn't be happier!