ID: B000AQSMPO-R1ZODK65FAX8ME-A2EVSUGZG3K4DA
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-B60-Special-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing
ReviewerID: A2EVSUGZG3K4DA
ReviewerName: Luke Rad "lz3broc"
Date: December 14, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Now I wish I had the MINI brewer too!
Content:
My wife bought me the Keurig Ultimate B60 Gourmet brewing system for early Christmas gift. I did not expect to get one as money is tight. But I am glad she got it for me as I've been a coffee/tea addict for many years. I've been spying these "Single Cup" systems for months because I am the type that usually can never finish more than 1 mug of joe at a time. I hate to waste and I also love to sample many different flavors. My wife has never been coffee drinker so a "Single Cup" setup is perfect for us. I looked at the Tassimo and some other systems but wasn't sure on any of them. Getting the Keurig was definitely a surprise and the last week that I've been using it, I've been enjoying almost every cup of the Sample pack that came with it.
It is a rather neat system. Every K-Cup has enough product for 1 cup. My main concern is One man's Cup is another Man's Shot Glass. When I would make coffee or tea I tend to make a larger portion. The Small Teacup setting on the Keurig is barely enough for more than a Taste. The other two settings produce a little more but not much. It's not easy to make more than the one of 3 sizes of brew from 1 K-cup. Primarily because each K-Cup is designed specifically for no more than 1 use. On that end I wish there were was a larger brew setting and some K-cups had more product.
I found out later that the next up larger end model has 4 brew settings, and does allow for larger portion of brew up to 12oz. And I also found out there are some K-Cups the "Extra Bold" apparently contain 30% more product than the standard K-Cups. So Its mostly a matter of buying the K-Cups that are the "extra" variety which contain 30% more product and can deliver more brew per session.
The model I have suites me fine though. It came with 3, 18packs. I thought it was a major plenty but to be honest I've been smapling a lot more than I normally would I guess ha ha ha. The Variety Pack has a good mix of Coffees and 3 different Teas and 1 hot cocoa.
On that Note, Hot Cocoa, in my opinion is Not meant for the Keurig. The Ghiradelli Hot Cocoa does not brew up very well and Did not taste all that great to me. Also the 3 or 4 different kinds of Hot Cocoa that Keurig offers is not varying enough for my tastes. The Keurig however Does an Excellent job with Coffee and Tea.
My bundle came with the "My K-Cup" Accessory. Its normally a $14 add on and let me tell you it is an Awesome Add on to use. Essentially it allows you to USE any Loose Ground Coffee or Tea that you have with your Keurig. Thats a Good Fact to know because when you start to add prices up the K-Cups can get to be expensive. 1 K-Cup is essentially 1 serving. Sometimes when you find a Flavor you love you want to be able to get more of it. Unless you Order them Online and pay obscene Shipping costs, you are not going to find all the K-Cup flavors that you like. Local Stores like Target, Macy's, Bed Bath & Beyond, Costco and even Best Buy sometimes only carry a few K-Cup boxes. So having the "My K-Cup" I can put some of my favorite ground coffee or loose tea and save some money when I can't stock up on K-cups.
Lastly, something most people might not realize, the better the water the better the brew. I've found using filtered water tastes the best. Straight Tap water sometimes makes some flavors a bit odd.
EDIT:
Since owning the B-60 for over a year I am very glad that Keurig has taken off. I now can buy K-Cups almost everywhere: Walmart, Meijer, Target, Now EVEN Sears. Which means I do not HAVE to buy a massive box of k-cups every few months.
I HAVE advise anyone who buys one to Make sure you use GOOD Quality Water... I filter my water ALL the time now. If you want Nasty Coffee then use regular Tap.