ID: B000VDQ38E-R2TK9AKWID5XG-A20F07OEHAKXZ7
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A20F07OEHAKXZ7
ReviewerName: John Galt
Date: January 4, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 1.0
Title: Short lifespan, better off with a $50 vacuum
Content:
I bought this vacuum in December of 08 when we bought a house. The carpets were clean but we were giving it a once over before we started moving stuff in. Not a whole lot of carpet, maybe 400 square feet. The motor burned up 15 minutes out of the box so we took it back and exchanged it. The second one has lasted until now. We vacuum on average once a week and we don't wear shoes in the house, so besides picking up after the short hair cat and dog, it doesn't have much more to accomplish. The extra tools are worthless, we tried to use those a couple times and went back to using a textured mitt for getting the hair off the furniture which is much faster and gets more up. The suction is less than adequate. I was constently bending over to pick up fuzz left behind. When I shave my head in the bathroom I have to bring in the shop vac to clean up the linoluem because this will only suck up the big clumps of hair and then clog itself.
The dirt cup is the biggest pain. It fills up pretty quick and then I take it out into the garage where I use the shop vac to suck up all the dirt that is spilled everywhere. It likes to clump up in the top non removeable half and you have to get down on your hands and knees to get all the dirt out. I spend more time emptying it then I do vacuuming.
When I bought the $150 vacuum, I expected something that was 3 times better then the last one I had, a $50 Dirt Devil (which ran perfectly for 3 years until I moved to an all hardwood apartment and sold it). It was the complete opposite. I find dragging around a 16 gallon shop vac more conveniant (and quieter). A textured glove works better for picking up pet hair. I'd be suprised if this thing could leave you a hicky if you left it on your neck for 8 hours. 
Right now, the height adjustment is broke which caused the brush to quit spinning and burn up the belt. I couldn't really tell it wasn't working because it always leaves stuff behind. I think I'll go buy the $48 Dirt Devil this time. It will cost me less than everything I need to make the Bissell work half as good.