ID: B0007QKMR8-R1AQQOQTYFZI5F-A11FTACZ2S9IOS
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-Camera
ReviewerID: A11FTACZ2S9IOS
ReviewerName: Crank
Date: March 28, 2005
Helpful: 8 of 20
Rating: 5.0
Title: It Is Cool SLR!
Content:
I bought this camera right after I have seen it is comming up 2 amazon. This is my first SLR. It is really good and I like it and I am glad to have it! I was really suprised how light is it! If you hold it in your hands.. it just fit really good! I use 1gb flash card II and I can fit about 262 pictures on standart Large size and 118 in RAW format. Thats, I think, pretty good. Camera is really quick. I like the flash (you can change the flash exposure) I like the parameters and b&w filters. You also can change the white balance in many different ways. AF mode and metering mode is good too! In automatic modes everything works properly. 
One night it was snowing and I wanted to take some pictures at night about treets with snow on but it didn't let me take picture because of snowing...
It is lot of work to set everything correctly but if you know how the picture look really pretty!!! I am also fine with the battery. Some reviewers criticises it but I like it. I was taking lot of pictures outside all day (without flash) and my battery is still ok.. so  I can not say anything bad. The thing I don't like the most is the strap. It is cheap and non comfortable! I also bought the EH18 case for this camera but I am very disapointed, such as I wrote in the review about it. It is really complicated to put the camera out of the case and then after that you have to put the case somewhere because it doesn't have any strap. Also the front lens cap. You have to put it somewhere because it is not connected to the camera by any string or something.
I am really enjoying this SLR. Now I need other accesories... I would love the 17-88 zoom lens but is expensive!
The price of this camera is ok. I found it today $50 cheaper then I payed but it is ok. Also tripod and better case is needed.
In the end, I really like this brand New Digital Rebel XT SLR!