ID: B000LF2CBE-R2FVU08L7TJM6W-A1FDV3WPOHREY9
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Stanley-675900-Pro-Ceramic-Pivoting-Utility
ReviewerID: A1FDV3WPOHREY9
ReviewerName: C. Scanlon "least helpful reviewer"
Date: January 5, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 2.0
Title: ONLY FOR A MILD HEATING IN A MERELY COOL ROOM; shucks, just use another hooded sweatshirt!
Content:
Okay, so I admit it; I got fooled by the box, and the Stanley name.
On the box you see this guy looking like the construction worker from the The Best of Village People, crouching, like, well, the construction guy form the Village people, pointing rudely at a blueprint on a floor of a huge unfinished room, apparently warmed adequately by this small unit for crouching and pointing out blueprint features to nobody else in the room.
Look carefully at the unit, very carefully. It is not plugged in, and in fact looks like its cord was cut.
So, sure there is nothing on the outside of the box to indicate otherwise. It is not until you open the box that you read in bold print: Not for use in agricultural or construction situations, or garages, etc.
You also deep inside read the absolute prohibition against using any kind of extension cord.
Well, duh! I mean this short cord does not reach all that far . . .
And it says touch the wall around the plug, to make sure it is not heating up.
So anyway, I thought I would try it anyway on the bathroom where I try to wipe down in the morning before work, but had to use an extension cord, and got out the fattest one I had, knowing the cord on this unit is just a regular double cord, nothing fat.
Like, listen. Try turning this thing on and wait for the heat to fill the small bathroom I rub down in. It feels just like you turned on a fan, with no heat, even at the highest settings.
So I figured, gee, this will make a nice DESK FAN in the SUMMERTIME to push the air around.
I could not get it to heat up that small bathroom reasonably for a bath. It was warmer without it, and wow was it cold . . .
I see a lot of unfavorable reviews claiming this thing could not heat up a room in sub-freezing weather. I just want to warm up a cold bathroom in the morning, not freezing, but cold. And I could not get it to work. Sitting right in front of it soaping down, all I felt was cold.
So I figured maybe it needs to run awhile, and so at night before laying down on the couch for the night, I let it rip by the couch, in the kitchen, a far bigger room. After an hour or so it did seem to warm up the couch area enough, and then I would turn it off, and unplug it (remembering that thing about walls heating up to flammable temperatures).
It seems to work as a bed pre-warmer, but at this price? Get a dog instead.
Very disappointing. Do not fall for the brand name, and for the utility looks. The manual prohibits use in industrial and agricultural areas. Do not fall for that photo of that Village People guy crouching and pointing. This is no Disco Inferno.
Might make a great desk fan in the summertime . . .