ID: B000UWC4SY-R2BS3IIFURL97V-A1F15Q4FIWE9BG
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-DCM675BMT-Programmable-Stainless
ReviewerID: A1F15Q4FIWE9BG
ReviewerName: Christine
Date: January 31, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Nice little no-frills coffee pot
Content:
This pot is exactly what I was looking for in my apartment with roommates. First, the carafe is stainless steel, so there's much less risk of clumsy breakage. Another nice thing about it, which was not the case with Black & Decker's larger insulated metal coffee maker we had previously, is that all the parts fit together well. In other words, you're not left trying to guess the right way to put the top on or if the lid of the whole thing is all the way down. You do have to make sure your paper filter is in all the way and pressed against the sides of the filter basket, because otherwise you risk the water spraying the filter in a certain way that it folds in on itself, and grounds end up in your coffee. This has only happened to me once. I haven't had any problems with pouring the coffee, while that was a problem with B&D's larger model.
One thing to note, which other reviewers have mentioned, is this pot is NOT insulated. The carafe is made of fairly thin steel. So while it's sturdy, don't expect it to keep your coffee warm if the pot is off. Coffee makers with the hot plate have a tendency to yield burnt tasting coffee if it sits on it too long, but I haven't noticed that with this pot. It keeps the coffee warm but not so hot that it burns.
Potential negatives that may or may not be important to you: 
1) It takes a few minutes to make a full pot, and there's no auto shut-off if you try to pour before it's done brewing. You just have to wait until it's done. I don't think a full pot takes more than 10 minutes to brew.
2) The brewing basket has no stopper in it, just a hole (which explains the lack of auto shut-off). This means the coffee will be weaker than your average coffee maker may yield. It's not impossible to overcome that; I just add a little more coffee than I would normally, and it tastes great.