ID: B000G1CY02-R2ZH4BB4JW6M30-A1UQ9SRV45KHC5
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-HHP1500-Safeheat-Mica-Panel-Heater
ReviewerID: A1UQ9SRV45KHC5
ReviewerName: Jim Heale
Date: November 26, 2007
Helpful: 40 of 46
Rating: 3.0
Title: Can't Remove STICKER!
Content:
I have removed two stars from this excellent, five star product for reasons unrelated to its performance. I found the heater did a wonderful job of supplementing my bedroom warmth at night with a reasonable built-in thermostat. The heater is stylish looking and very light for its size so it moves easily (you don't really need the casters). Also, you can mount it to a wall, which I haven't tried yet, but it comes with all of the mounting hardware.  I love how quickly this thing starts putting out heat. Overall, this is exactly what I wanted - a five-star solution for a quiet and effective heater for a large bedroom (15'X13')
Unfortunately, there is a huge 8" sticker on the face of the unit that warns that it MUST be removed before using. The reason for the sticker is to let you know that the heater will smell for the first hour or so, which is accurate. However, when I tried to remove the sticker, it would not come off. I had to remove it in multiple pieces and there was still a very stubborn papery residue. I soaked it with a wet soapy washcloth, but the tacky substance is NOT water-soluble. I had succeeded in making a mess and I was very frustrated that the manufacturer was so incompetent as to use such a stubborn sticker on a product where it was necessary to remove. Finally, I resorted to using some Goof-off, which is what I often use to dissolve non water-soluble sticker residue. The paint melted along with the sticker and the nice-looking heater looks like a factory defect! So, I took one star off the review for that waste of 30 minutes and resulting mess.
I called DeLonghi customer service to tell them about my misadventure. At first, they told me that since I had damaged the unit, I had voided the warranty. I kept my cool, which was difficult, and asked what was expected of me to remove a sticker that WILL NOT come off. The idiot response was that I needed to call them before I removed the sticker and not after melting the paint off the unit with sticker-remover. I asked them what they would have instructed me to do if I HAD called them before using sticker remover. After a long pause, the CS rep put me on hold to talk to her supervisor. They then told me they would send me a new unit only after I cut the cord off of mine, paid them $7.50 for postage, and mailed the cord along with a letter to their Ohio headquarters. I took another star off of the final review for this hassle.
UPDATE: DeLonghi's replacement heater shipped with an upgraded plastic sticker that came right off with no problems.