ID: B000OKHY2S-R3E2XAQ98C2MRB-A3VD63TGPZPWGN
Category: AirConditioners
Product: SPT-SF-608R-Portable-Evaporative-Cooler
ReviewerID: A3VD63TGPZPWGN
ReviewerName: J. Jackson
Date: July 31, 2009
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 4.0
Title: It's Cool
Content:
After reading conflicting reviews I was thoroughly confused, yet I was so desperately hot I took a chance on this product. Here is the true skinny on this portable cooling unit.
I live in Colorado. The humidity has ranged from 30 to 88%, the temperature 84-93 degrees. I filled the unit with 2 gallons of cold water from the frig and 2 trays of ice cubes. It absolutely blew cool air, even after the ice melted and the water reached room temperature it still blew cool air. Don't bother checking a thermometer it DOES NOT cool an entire room, no matter how small, it cools the AREA you point it at. 
If you sit at the computer or any other stationary position, place the unit within 7 feet, and point it in your direction you will be cooled.
As for the humidity, this is a problem only in a room with no air circulation. 
I pointed the unit at my bed and was quite comfortable, even chilly. However, in this room I have only a small table fan and the windows are closed, so within 45 minutes I was suffocating from the humid air. 
In the living room where I have 2 ceiling fans and 2 box fans-one in front of the half opened door, either turned to blow air in or flipped to pull air out- I have had NO issues with humidity, even at 88%.
It beeps to let you know when the water level is low. It is easy to put handfuls of ice cubes in the tank but I found it really wasnt necessary. Pouring in the water is easy as well, but if you dont hold the little door open it will sometimes close leaving you pouring water onto your floor! I havent had to clean it yet, but the filter is easily accessible. It's no louder than a box fan and wheels around smoothly. I wish the unit were a bit taller and the blower area a bit larger but these are my only negatives. 
Overall, I got what I wanted. I no longer sit at my desk with wet rags on my head, miserable and hot. I dont have to stick something in my window, or spend hundreds for central AC.  If you want a cool room, look for something else. If you want to be cool in a stationary location, and you have good air circulation this will work for you.