ID: B00008UI0R-R27VHDXOC2QEJ2-A9C49H3RYG158
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A9C49H3RYG158
ReviewerName: H. GODFREY
Date: April 21, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great vacuum but one thing needs to be improved
Content:
Whenever I buy something, I search for a long time which my husband thinks it is a waste of time. But for this Vacuum, he is very happy with what I did!!
When I first vacuumed my house and opened the dust cup, I was so embarrassed! " All this came from my floor!!!"
We don't wear shoes in our house and I always thought our carpet was pretty clean. It was not! 
This vacuum picks up really good and comparing to my other upright one (I hate to compare this with Sam Sung brand because I am Korean and I always love Sam Sung But..... Samsung quiet jet ), it is less noisy. 
Some people complained about the mess when you dump the dust cup but for me it is the most fun part. I CAN SEE how much it picked up and I feel pretty clean about carpet. 
One of the main reason I purchase this vac was it has a brush for bare floor. It works really good for  Our kitchen & dining area(wooden floor), laundry room, bathroom. It is very easy to interchange brush. I love it. 
Hand held power brush works good for our stairs too. but if you don't have stairs, you can just purchase one which doesn't include power brush from Walmart. (it is about $50 cheaper) 
The filter is pretty easy to clean too. 
The only thing needs to be improved is their plastic body and durability. 
Since it is a canister, its main body tends to bump to the corner of the wall, furniture when I drag it around. 
The plastic ring of the wheel has already broken off -Luckily it was just for cosmetic reason. The wheels still run fine. 
So when I vacuum, I have to be a little bit careful so the body of the vacuum doesn't bump my furniture. 
If Hoover and all the other manufacturer  put rubber around the vacuum (body), it will be great. Then I don't need to worry about vacuum and my furniture. 
Over all, I am very happy with this vacuum.