ID: B0004FLEXS-R2K135LJHAV3OT-AQGQG17SFYMPX
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-DCM2500B-SmartBrew-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: AQGQG17SFYMPX
ReviewerName: Matthew David Dooris "Matthew Dooris"
Date: October 3, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 2.0
Title: Warning: Buy Another Coffee Maker!
Content:
I am never one to complain about a product but this coffee maker was so bad that I felt compelled to write a review.  I actually reviewed many of the reviews on this product on Amazon prior to purchasing this coffee maker approximately 2-3 months ago.  I thought I had hit the gold mine - a high quality coffee maker at a low price.  Many of the problems that I read on the reviews were the following:
1. Coffee does not taste very good 
2. If you do not have the carafe placed perfectly under the filter mechanism during the brew process, your kitchen counter will be suddenly filled with water and coffee grounds
3. The coffee is not very hot and often requires nuking in the microwave
Well, I highly recommend that you heed the warnings.  I did not and paid for it.  On three occasions, water/coffee grounds from the coffee pot overflowed all over the place.  There apparently is no safety mechanism that prevents this from happening so special attention must be given when brewing coffee using this pot.  If the carafe is misplaced, even a few millimeters, it will overflow.  I also often found myself having to nuke the coffee to warm it up, this only minutes after the completion of the brew process.  Finally, the coffee really did not taste very good.  The coffee was consistently weak or watered down.  I did not realize how bad the coffee was until I went out and bought a new Cuisinart 12 Cup Coffee Maker yesterday. 
It should be noted that I had to go out and purchase a new coffeemaker because the electronics associated with this coffeemaker died following the last overfill.  We all know that these electronic compartments are not waterproof so when it overfilled, the water entered and destroyed the mechanism by which the coffee brewer is controlled.  I even let it sit out for a couple of days hoping that it would dry out with no success.   
To avoid being considered biased against this coffee maker, it does have some redeemable qualities.  First, the carafe is fantastic, probably the best I have ever seen.  Also, the controls are laid out nicely and programming the time, brewing the coffee, etc. was extremely easy.  Lastly, the overall look of the coffee maker, plus the ability to see the amount of water in the reservoir, was very well designed.  Unfortunately, that is where the positive components of the coffee maker end.  
I am a coffee connoisseur and have had cups of coffee all around the world.  I love the Cuban coffee produced and sold in Tampa, as well as a number of brands sold by Starbucks.  For this reason, it could be said that I like my coffee stronger than some (keep this in mind as it might bias my perception of the coffee brewed by this coffeemaker).  Despite this, a good coffee maker should not spill all over the place and the coffee should be hot, especially following the brewing process.  I encourage anyone who loves drinking coffee to spend the extra $20-30 for a Cuisinart or other state-of-the-art coffee maker.  You will save yourself a great deal of frustration and will not have to look over your shoulder each time you brew coffee to see if water and coffee grounds are flowing all over your kitchen counter and floor.