ID: B000GLHVQE-R28JX3J3FIYXSX-A2AXEAIGHWZNVQ
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Dimplex-CS1205-Compact-Electric-Stove
ReviewerID: A2AXEAIGHWZNVQ
ReviewerName: Pet Serrano "Pet"
Date: November 13, 2007
Helpful: 122 of 123
Rating: 4.0
Title: Not EXACTLY like a fire, but pretty.
Content:
Some critter got under the house and detached our heating ducts a few years ago so we only use electric heat and ambient heat from other rooms in the livingroom. I was looking for a better space heater after an Econoheat panel shorted and melted while I slept. 
The problem with most space heaters is they are UGLY. They look like they belong in a garage. I wanted something that looked like a piece of furniture that wouldn't set fire to my cats and that could heat up a big room with open doorways. I should also mention that I have a humor-based decorating style, so whether someone else will find it tacky or not is of no concern to me. I don't invite people without a sense of humor into my home. 
Anyway, I went with this. On a scale of 1 to 10, 1 being an orange spotlight behind a fan blowing white bits of fabric around like some Halloween decorations, and 10 being a real fire, I'd give it a 7.5. It only looks like a real fire if you're not looking directly at it. The foily logs help a bit and it does have a slight 3D effect that makes it better than some, but even if you add a crackling fire mp3 and burn wood incense in the room no one is going to mistake it for a real fire. 
That's not to say I don't like it. It does provide that hypnotizing effect you look for in a fireplace!
Additionally, it was 35 degrees F last night. I live in a farmhouse with 4 inch walls and cellulose insulation. I put it in my livingroom, which is approximately 500 sq feet, with an open doorway, 2 large windows, a sliding glass door, no basement, and an open stairway. It kept the room at 72 to 74 degrees all night.
It seems to be of sturdy construction. The top stays cool. The fan is very quiet. It's also light and portable. Overall I'm satisfied enough to get another one for my office.