ID: B00067TTZO-R2EGK0BIZ64DR4-A1361VIWASUD54
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Zen-Micro-Player-Silver
ReviewerID: A1361VIWASUD54
ReviewerName: G. A. Mickelson "northwoods"
Date: June 16, 2005
Helpful: 7 of 8
Rating: 1.0
Title: I've tried
Content:
I first ordered this product almost two months ago.  It came and locked-up constantly.  I had to go to a customer service supervisor to get anything done about it and then of course the black model I ordred couldn't be sent as a replacement because they were on hold to fill back orders.  I ordered a blue one.  That one arrived in late May and I used it twice at the park while watching kids baseball.  Yesterday the thing started, and locked up.  I removed and replaced the battery to unlock it.  When it restarted it clicked several times and flashed it had a hardware failure.
Back to customer service.  I told them I wanted a replacement and to send it over night at their expense because I paid for the expedited shipping last time and they sent me another defective player.  Nope.  Couldn't do that.  Couldn't get one out today either despite the fact my email was waiting for them when they came in this morning.  Earliest would be tomorrow.  And of course they would have to charge my card again to send it out and credit me when they got it back (this the second time also).  The accessories I ordered were on back order for at least a month.  We're all adults, certainly you need to make up your own minds about your purchase.  If you go for it those are the risks and PLEASE buy the extra warranty for yourself so you have some protection.  Amazon stands behind everything they sell and I mean they are fast and straight forward.  Creative doesn't even make a workable product much less try and make things right with their customers.
I have spent thousands of dollars at Amazon.  Like an idiot I was reading the manufacturers site and bought it there.  Later I find it at Amazon too-- same price.  Forgive me Amazon, I shouldn't have strayed.  And definitely be cautious about buying the Zen Micro-- I'm guessing they rushed this thing out to match the mini I-Pods before Apple cornered too much of the market.
Update 7/28/05:  Replaced the Micro Zen with an IRiver H10 from Amazon (of course) and have had ZERO problems.  Works like a trooper.  Bought quite a few adapters, extra battery etc., directly from IRiver and it was here in just a few days.  They did send me two of one thing and none of another by mistake.  I emailed them and received the missing product again in just a few short days.  THAT IS SERVICE!  I've never owned an IRiver product but I love this thing to death.  The menus are better and the navigation system 'touch' is perfect.  The sound is as good and the battery lasts longer than the Micro.