ID: B000TQEDE4-R1Q57DPC9OCQBI-A16BMA3IUPMKWW
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1150BK-Programmable-Thermal-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A16BMA3IUPMKWW
ReviewerName: Inga Bubar "hoyhoy2u"
Date: September 12, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent Coffee maker!
Content:
Easy to program, easy to see the display. You really don't need the directions to use it, that's nice for a change!
I'm thinking this will be better than my last one because the buttons are on top instead of the base so they should be less likely to get "gunk" in them over time. I think that's what killed it, the buttons stopped working and I can't get it apart to clean the contacts because it is held together with bizarre little recessed screws I''ve never seen before. I should call Cuisinart and ask them why, I'd still like to try & fix it.
My last one was a 12-cup Cuisinart, also very good, it lasted 7 or 8 years. I can say from experience that Cuisinart's customer service is very good, they will ship you a new one if it dies under warranty very quickly for $[...] They understand that most people NEED their coffee!
I love the carafe and won't own anything else. The coffee stays hot for hours without getting cooked and I don't have to wonder halfway to work if I shut the pot off. Also, you will never shatter this thing! You can take it out to the garage and leave it with the guys. You will keep the carafe long after the coffee maker dies. Then you can have hot coffee and make more simultaneously! 
This is easiest to fill if you can put it somewhere not under your cabinets or on something that slides toward you easily. Filling it with the carafe makes sense but it does tend to dribble water and the last bit doesn't pour out readily.
I also liked that this came with the gold filter so should you run out of paper ones, no building your own with paper towels!
Additionally, there is a built in replaceable water filter. While I live in a rural area where the water is excellent, I'm sure this is an added bonus for many folks.
This was the cheapest high-end pot that had what I wanted ([...]). I don't see the point of a built in grinder. A grinder is $[...] and would just be more to break if it was built in.
Overall, an excellent product. You may need to experiment to find the neatest filling device.
I love that the directions warn you that the filter is only meant to hold 15 scoops. I love strong coffee but 15 for 10 cups????
Bought it through Amazon from this seller: [...]  It arrived in less than 48 hours with free goodies even. I will most definitely look to them again first the next time I need anything for the kitchen, they are a true 5-star seller!