ID: B000W10U20-R38BCA4EJU3DVV-AFG1RHLO2TQD1
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV2620US-14-1-inch-Entertainment-Processor
ReviewerID: AFG1RHLO2TQD1
ReviewerName: Lauren Gale
Date: December 10, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 1.0
Title: HP lost my business forever
Content:
I have to say, it was really a combination of HP and Vista that did it.  But this past week, my laptop adapter started smoking and caught fire.  Yes...it actually caught fire.  Thank goodness I was home, because I might not have had a home to come back to.  So I call HP with my tale of woe, like...for the typical American, this is lawsuit territory, and I'm told I'll be overnighted an adapter.  The next day it doesn't come, so I call back to ask WTF, since I have no way of charging a laptop I need to use.  I'm then told they don't overnight parts, that it hasn't even been shipped out.  OK, so now I have no way to use my laptop since the battery is completely dead.  Having owned an IBM, this is completely absurd, since IBM went out of their way to get parts next day.
Now, for why the thing caught fire...the power plug is located on the right side of the computer.  The geniuses at HP give you a straight adapter, which means if your power source is on the left side of your laptop, the cord will constantly be bent.  Straight adapters are supposed to be used when the power plug is located on the back of a laptop.  L adapters are more suitable for side plugs.  I was told they'd be shipping out an L adapter to prevent this from occurring again..lie #2.  At this point, I'm completely disgusted with their customer service.
Also, I've also had a problem with the mouse pad.  The mouse seems to do whatever it wants...there's no way you could do precision work on this laptop, because the mouse jumps and clicks whatever it feels like.  After several driver updates, it still didn't fix itself, so I have to send it in to HP.  
All in all, this laptop experience has been a miserable one for me.  My last HP was great, which is why I bought another but I think now I'll take the plunge into Apple for my next laptop.