ID: B00008UI0R-R3JA6OVWJBTMB0-AUC61W5NTDKXR
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: AUC61W5NTDKXR
ReviewerName: D. Blasetti
Date: July 1, 2006
Helpful: 19 of 19
Rating: 5.0
Title: House full of Pets and Hoover does great!
Content:
I have been using this Hoover for about a month now.  We just moved into a home with hardwood floors and a canister vac seemed to be a must.  This is the first canister we have ever used, and I have to say, I see no reason to ever own an upright again.  
The suction on this thing is amazing!  I LOVE that all the controls are right there on the handle and you can set the suction to high medium or low.  I also LOVE the fact that vacuum is easily adjustable so even my 8 year old can manouver it easily.
We have 6 dogs and 4 cats here, so everyday vacuuming is the only option.  I have yet to have any type of clogging issue that I would surely have experienced with my upright by now.
To address some of the comments about having to change the container every few days/weeks/months...I don't understand.  As a personal choice, I change the container every day before vacuuming and sometimes even during a particlarly fur infested room.  I have alwasy done this with my bagless vacuums.  That is why you are buying a bagless...to get the most suction as possible and thus a cleaner home.  If you are complaining because you have to empty the canister after 5 vacuums, than I am afraid you are not seeing the benefit of owning a bagless which is to get **rid** of the dust immediately not only for your health but to ensure you get the most bang for your buck out of your bagless.
Also, I think that as far as bagless vacuums go, the container is one of the easiest to empty.  It comes out nicely, and I do not have to touch anything dirty to empty it, which is not the case with all bagless!
The only cons I see to owning this vacuum is the floor accessory tool does not stand upright on its own without careful placing and not all of the tools have a storage place on the vacuum.  (I keep them in a plastic bag hanging from a doorknob) But honestly, it would only make awesome vacuum perfect and would in NO WAY prohibit me from buying this exact same model again.  I love when a product delivers, and I really feel like that is the case here.  
This was money well spent!