ID: B0000SWABO-R2EG34V0XMDUX3-A4JF6BBSPHNVN
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL6984A-Harmony-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A4JF6BBSPHNVN
ReviewerName: Jermain Snyder "Johnny D"
Date: July 16, 2008
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best vaccuum ever!
Content:
I just finished vaccuuming our 3 bedroom apartment and I must say that this was, without any question, the best vaccuuming experience of my life.  From the moment I picked it up until the moment I put it away I was continuously amazed at the ease of use of this vaccuum.  The Electrolux EL6985B Harmony is not only light as a feather but it is also as quiet as a hummingbird.  We live in an all-harwood floor apt above another family and I just vaccummed the whole place at 10:00 pm knowing that our neighboors down below heard absolutely nothing.  I used 3 of the 4 attachements (floor, carpet, and corner, not crevise) throughout the session.  Adding and removing attachments was as easy and effortless as changing a radio station.  The Harmony quietly followed me through the apartment as I moved along, self-extending the cord with ease.  When I finally needed to plug into a different outlet (the room in the back of the house) the cord was extremely easy to contract.  I only had to go over each area of our place once, never having to go back and re-do areas.  If I were to summarize this experience in one word I would say 'easy'.  If I were to summarize this experience in more than one word I would write a review on [...] similar to this :)  The other best thing about this vaccuum is that my girlfriend does not yell at me for doing a poor job of cleaning like she did when I used our old vaccuum!
In summation I say buy this vaccuum.  I can't imagine there being a better piece of equipment on the market for this price.
I hope this review helps.
Pro's:
Lightweight, quiet, easy on floors, easy on carpet, easy in corners, cord extends efforlessly on its own, attachments easy to add/remove.
Con's:
none