ID: B000AAWEJU-R34D06210DFU92-A1CUR8ZKC2XZAK
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-Carina-Canister-Vacuum-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1CUR8ZKC2XZAK
ReviewerName: Wendyll
Date: November 15, 2007
Helpful: 58 of 58
Rating: 5.0
Title: No Better Vacuum Out There for Bare Floors
Content:
I have owned this product for around 6 months now and have never had anything better!  Background info:  3 dogs (Golden, Boxer, Catahoula Leopard Hound), 2 cats, 2 kids, bare floors in all but one room.  I have owned everything from a cheapy $99 job (broke w/in 2 months)to a $1200 Kirby.  NOTHING works better on pet hair, sand and bare floors (wood, tile) than this Miele!  Even with other vacuums that had great suction, either the floor attachment or even the long tube at the end of the hose (not sure of the "technical" name for that part) would constantly get clogged with the animal fur.  This little vacuum not only has fabulous suction, it has NEVER gotten clogged!
Other plusses: very lightweight, easy to maneuver, cord sucks up into the canister (no winding), quietest vacuum I've ever owned, small, cute (doesn't matter in the big picture but not a bad bonus)
Cons: (let me preface by saying the cons are so minor in light of the non-clogging that I am still giving the Miele 5 stars) the cord is not very long (though not really any shorter than most of my other vacuums) and the small bag fills up quickly (mostly because I am too lazy to go around and manually pick up the huge pet fur tumbleweeds before I vacuum), it is not overly easy to get at the roller brush on the turbo attachment (to clean it/pull the hair off).
Helpful hint:  the difference between the models of Galaxy canister vacs is only the color of the canister and the attachments that come with it - nothing else.  It took me a little time to figure that out. The turbo power attachment works great on mats and area rugs and does just fine on our one room with carpet.  The bare floor attachment has never scratched anything and has a low enough profile to go underneath almost all of my furniture.
I have never written a review before (although I should have done so because I rely on them all the time) but just finished vacuuming in record time and with such ease that I felt compelled to sing the praises of this little Miele!