ID: B000NE2MZ4-R3NK0SDBV73GDT-A1GQ3XWRU254NM
Category: MP3Players
Product: TrekStor-i-Beat-Video-Player-Pink
ReviewerID: A1GQ3XWRU254NM
ReviewerName: Eena "mom of 3 monsters"
Date: June 3, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Simple, Stylish, and Easy to Use
Content:
I LOVE LOVE LOVE my pink! It's so cute and the girliest prettiest shade of pink ever. The buttons are super sensitive, super touchy and you press everything you don't mean to at first until you get the hang of it. Very easy to put mp3 songs on- either drag and drop from a folder on your computer or sync using Windows Media Player or Realplayer. Can only make one playlist on the player unless you rearrange all your music on the computer and even then some songs don't go to the right artists or genre but I think this happens with some other players too. Picture quality isn't awesome and to be perfectly honest, with only 2GB on this thing, I don't mess with it because it's a waste of precious song space. Can't comment on video quality but you need to use included CD to convert videos to smv format. Again, a waste of space for me, so I don't utilize this feature. The voice recorder works well, playback is loud and clear. Included Sennheiser headphones are comfortable and sound quality is great, far better than the ones that came with my husband's Sandisk Sansa or any of the other cheap ones we have laying around the house, certainly not Bose but better than adequate. FM radio has been great, reception for me has been very good, but my friend whom I also gave this same player to complains that she can't pick up a couple of her favorite stations, so maybe it depends where you are when using it. It charges pretty quickly, within just a few hours, 3-4 and battery has lasted pretty long for me too, but I don't try to listen for 12 hours straight or anything. Had a hard time finding a case for it, but I am also leaving the link for the one I finally did find which is a perfect fit. 
http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B000GA7CYG/ref=ox_ya_oh_product 
It's the Case Logic UNP-1 Universal Neoprene Pocket - Small (PINK/WHITE). Comes in silver and other colors too and cost about 7 bucks from J&R music. 
I got a great deal on this player for about 23 bucks including shipping from J&R Music here on Amazon (Amazon was selling it for 50 at the time). It is my first mp3 player, and so far the only problem I'm having is that I think I might need one with more storage space on it. This holds supposedly 500 mp3 songs. I currently have 433 on mine and just a tiny bit more space to go. Wish it had an SD expansion slot like my husband's Sansa does. Oh yeah, please note- the headphone jack is also where the USB charger goes into and you can't listen to it while it's charging. I tried to get one of those wall chargers for it but haven't figured out yet if it charges it or not. Will let you know when I do. All in all, pretty happy with it for a 1st player but will eventually need to upgrade myself. 4 stars for quality, looks, simplicity, and most of all price.