ID: B0000C8VEK-R3DOM5VV0BBEIF-A3M9JF0P4LLNV8
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-Camera-18-55mm
ReviewerID: A3M9JF0P4LLNV8
ReviewerName: Kenaz Filan
Date: December 5, 2003
Helpful: 26 of 26
Rating: 5.0
Title: Simply an Amazing Camera
Content:
If you've been using a digital point-and-shoot for a while and you want to upgrade, you couldn't do any better than this camera.  If you can operate a high-end P&S camera, you can operate the Digital Rebel.  Simply choose your shooting mode (i.e. closeup, landscape, portrait, sports, etc.), press the shutter button halfway down to autofocus, then press the button all the way down.  First you'll notice how fast the autofocus function is: you won't have to worry about missing shots.  Then you'll see the photos, and you'll be amazed.  If you use the "Large/Fine" setting, you'll have files which easily be printed at 16"x20" without any discernible loss of quality ... try doing THAT with the photos from your 3MP point compact.    But wait, there's more.  You CAN use this camera as a fancy point-and-shoot... or, if you invest a little time and study, you can get creative.  The Digital Rebel allows you to control aperature, shutter speed, ISO  settings, white balance, autofocus points, etc.  It also allows you to use any Canon EF (autofocus) lens -- over sixty at last count.  Telephoto lenses, wide-angle lenses, macro lenses which allow extreme closeups ... you're limited only by your imagination, and your accessory budget.  If you already own a film SLR and want to go digital, you're going to love this baby... especially if you own a Canon autofocus SLR.  You'll be able to use your old lenses, flashes, and filters, and you'll be saving money on film and developing.  Professionals may want to spend the extra $600 or so for the Canon 60D; it allows a bit more flexibility with light metering and has a more sturdy magnesium body which will better withstand the rigors of photojournalism ... but this is more than enough camera for anybody who isn't going to be using it to earn their daily bread.  One last bit of advice: get this one fast.  Based on the buzz it's generated in various photo magazines, I'm guessing that the Digital Rebel will be flying off the shelves.  Buy now before you get stuck in backorder purgatory.