ID: B000BY9A3I-R6H8Z1NB262W3-A2K2037TEXS27M
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dirt-Devil-082700-Vision-Canister
ReviewerID: A2K2037TEXS27M
ReviewerName: Imissvabad
Date: April 2, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Dirt Devil
Content:
Bought this one after my Europro Shark's hose died and I couldn't find another one.  I really liked my old vacuum and was not looking forward to trying to find a new one.  I wanted a canister, hate uprights.  I read the kabillion reviews of this one and went for it. The suction is great.  I like the power button on the handle - didn't think I would but I do.  I also like that you can vary the speed so when you are trying to do a bathroom rug, you don't have to put your foot on it to hold it down so you can vacuum.  Both the hose and cord is longer than my Shark's was so that works great for me.  Yes you may have to empty it more often but it's not like you have to empty it after every room..... unless maybe you have lots of long haired dogs and/or you track an awful lot of dirt into your house.  I empty mine about every other used.  The other thing I really like is that it comes with a brush to clean the filter.  I used to use a toothbrush with my Shark.  If you feel you're losing suction, clean the filter, you will be amazed and what that will do.
Now, what I don't like about it is how you carry the attachments.  They all "fit" on a ring on the wand.  And they do, for about 10 minutes and then you are bound to bump into the couch or a wall and they fall off.  I'm thinking about raising the ring (it's held together by a little screw) to see if that helps.  Would prefer to have them held right on the canister like my Shark's were.  It does have the neat feature of fitting the wand/hose onto the back so you don't have to put it on the floor and bend over to get it.  I am not a fan of the "rug beater" head.  Kinda feels cheap when I use it but then I rarely use it - have always used the hard wood floor head (did the same with my Shark).  I feel like it picks up more.
Overall I am very happy with it, does a fine job on our two story, 2400 sq ft house.