ID: B000IBROQE-R2373WYPAH8ACO-A2HJPQQTZPTR3X
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Portable-Media-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A2HJPQQTZPTR3X
ReviewerName: M. Paszej
Date: September 17, 2006
Helpful: 23 of 24
Rating: 5.0
Title: Simply wonderful.
Content:
This is the most useful MP3 player I've used in 3 years.
I've been buying MP3 players for just about as long as they have existed, going back to the old 64K flash players which were around before the IPOD marketing revolution.
The Creative Zen is the neatest thing since a couple flash IRivers I bought years ago.
AESTHETICS
Size and feel are perfect.  When you take it out of the box, the rounded corners, and how plain NICE the Zen V feels in your hand, will both make you smile.  I noticed that it seems to be very sturdy, well built.
FUNCTIONALITY - PLUSES
Music quality is great.  I did not notice any background noise from the player.
The little joystic thingie used to navigate menus is easy to use, if a bit delicate.  Within five minutes of using it, I no longer had to think about its functions.  Very easy and quick to learn.
PLAYLISTS -  FINALLY a player which has no issues with playlists.  I listen to an ecclectic mix of chillout music, so for a hundred songs, I have a hundred different artists.  Thus the album/title/artist listening options are useless for me, and I HAVE to rely on playlists.  
The Zen V comes with Creative's Navigator software which flawlessly transfers music to the player, and flawlessly creates playlists on the Zen V.
Here's the best part -- I will NEVER have to use Windows Media Player to manage music on the Zen V.  Creative's software is much better.  No longer will I have to sacrifice a chicken, do a rain dance, and cross my fingers, hoping that MediaPlayer will properly create a picklist, and sync it, without wasting an hour of my time.  Joy unbound!
FUNCTIONALITY - MINUSES.
I found the following very minor negatives.  They are especially minor, since every other MP3 player I've handled has bigger. more annoying flaws.
1. The screen, even set at 100% contrast, is a bit difficult to read in direct sunlight.  So what's new!  That applies to every screen, on every electronic device, in the world. Solution -- stand in the shade!
2. If you fast-forward through a song, the Zen V does it silently, instead of playing music at an increased speed.  I hope there will be a firmware fix for this, since it helps to hear the music as your're fast-forwarding through it, to get a feel for when you want to go back to regular listening speed.