ID: B000VJX7DW-R2DOZSY3KOJJ8E-A3E4A4RXFDODN6
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D300-12-3MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A3E4A4RXFDODN6
ReviewerName: J. Childs
Date: September 18, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: a dream camera come true
Content:
I am not a professional photographer or a techie, but I do appreciate good photography and good quality photographic equipment. I wasn't that thrilled with my Nikon D80 and I was very pleased with my Nikon D200 which I was able to buy new for $720.00 (What a deal!.)  BUT the desire for this Nikon D300 kept nagging at me as I read more and more reviews.  The best review ever is from The Imaging Resource (google it).  So, I sold my Nikon D80, Nikon D200, and 3 prime lenses to pay for this new camera.  I also purchased David Busch's Nikon D300 Digital Field Guide, which is very helpful.  You will read all about this camera in many other reviews.  I just want to say that color is accurate, Build quality is awesome, User friendly. Very little nose at high ISO.  I think my favorite aspect is the four separate shooting menus.  They are very user friendly (even for me), independent of each other, and you can always reset it to default if you think you are getting lost.  I felt very safe navigating through all the menus.  I use it with the Nikon 16-85mm VR lens (approx $600).  Yes, you can take good photos with it right out of the box.  Of course, you have more control over exposure, depth of field etc as you learn more about the camera.  This is my advice.  If you have the money, $1700 approx,   buy this camera body!   It is the finest camera body you can buy without going to full frame, which is immensely more expensive.  Go ahead and buy Nikon kit zoom lens and upgrade to a more expensive lens down the road if you want to.  In the digital world, it is the camera body that is crucial for accurate color rendition etc.  As far as the lens goes, Nikon doesn't make a crappy lens.  I find the VR (vibration reduction) lens very helpful because I don't like to use tripods. It is a bit on the heavy side compared to D80 because it is solid Magnesium Alloy body.  If you want light weight, buy a compact. In the Nikon D300 manual, Nikon clearly states to never touch the sensor at all in any way. If you can't get the sensor dust off by blowing or by the built in dust vibration system, than make sure that a very qualified Nikon authorized person does it.  (this goes for all digital SLR cameras).   My previous film cameras were Minolta SRT 102, Leica Rangefinder M2, Contax with Zeiss lens, so I have owned some of the best.  This new Nikon D300 DX digital camera does not disappoint me.  I am going to get a lot of enjoyment out of it.  Jean