ID: B00006OAM6-R14VAYRJTZLDIO-A2RIA4QWBZGTBO
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: WindChaser-Oscillating-Tabletop-Infrared-Parabolic
ReviewerID: A2RIA4QWBZGTBO
ReviewerName: Jennifer
Date: December 17, 2004
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: It has a tilt control and it sends out cozy heat
Content:
The heater DOES have a tilt control on the side. When it's tilted, it looks exactly like what's shown in the picture above. It takes a bit coordination between your both hands, though, to make the control work, as one of your hands has to turn the control, the other has to support the head of the unit and make the angle.
The four screws for securing the head of the heater to the stand of it also take some figuring-out to tighten. If you turn the head of the heater away from the hole you're inserting the screw into, it'd be pretty easy to tighten the screw with only a Phillips screwdriver.
Of course, the manual would be more user-friendly if the aforementioned two points were spelled out clearly in it. In addition, it would be helpful to know more about the unit, such as the wavelength of the far-infrared the manufacture claims to use on this unit. Having researched on the benefits of far infrared and the high price tag usually associated with heaters that use it, I was quite suspicious about the unit due to the relatively low price. So far, I still don't have the means to verify whether it's true far infrared or not. If it is, then it's an incredible buy! 
Regardless, I'm feeling happy about this purchase as it's doing its job -- keeping me warm. To me, this heater feels better than a fire place, with similar kind of heat, but absolutely hassle free - no smoke, no noise, and the air is not dried. When I am reading, I like to use it on the low setting and put it about three feet from me on the floor. It feels just cozy. I was raised in southeast Asia, where it's warm almost throughout the year. You get the idea what it means to me to be cozy in winter time in Indiana!
Overall, I highly recommend this unit!