ID: B000NDMADO-R2HIOW99RKI8HO-A2SC2L4NZOAOOM
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dyson-DC21-Stowaway-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A2SC2L4NZOAOOM
ReviewerName: S. Friedenthal
Date: August 3, 2007
Helpful: 120 of 132
Rating: 2.0
Title: Powerful vacuum marred by design flaws
Content:
After all of the rave reviews about the Dyson we were actually a bit excited to buy one.  Unfortunately, after less than 1 week we are returning it for another brand.  
The good things about it are the same that others have noted: it has a very strong suction and the floor head maneuvers easily.  And the kids think it's cool to watch.
 
Soon after opening it however I noticed some design flaws which are almost embarrassing given the high cost.  The most glaring are:
1. The hose is made of a very cheap and thin plastic which easily kinks cutting off all of the suction.  Every other quality vacuum I see has a wire-embedded hose which is strong and flexible.  Dyson's, however is so cheaply made that it folded/bent in half a couple of times while doing some simple cleaning tasks.  The only way to avoid this is to always be aware of your orientation to the vacuum and constantly keep untwisting the hose to prevent an eventual kink.  The irony of a vacuum that "never loses suction" that actually loses 100% of its suction working around a corner is not lost on me.
2. The cannister doesn't move easily around the floor.  Maybe it's the small wheel on the bottom, or the weight, but we found that the vacuum wouldn't follow us easily while cleaning.  So, not only does it tend to get twisted in the cord, but it bumps into furniture a lot.  This probably also exacerbates the hose twisting noted above.
3. Others have mentioned the short cord, but I found it quite problematic.  We have an Oreck upright and I can clean almost the whole downstairs without having to unplug it once, but the Dyson needs to be plugged and unplugged in every room.  
4. The extensible wand is hard to extend and if you don't pull on it hard enough it will occasionally collapse while cleaning.  This is really very strange.  If you look at, for example, a Kenmore cannister the wand extends easily and clicks into one of several positions.  The Dyson's wand is unnecessarily wide, is hard to open and close, and has only one position.
5. The attachment tools don't click into place, but are held instead by friction, so they can easily get knocked our pulled out.
Inspite of the above I was hopeful that it would work out until our house cleaning person came over.  I showed her our new acquisition and both she and one of her assistants immediately rolled their heads back and swore (not so) softly.  As a professional she has used a lot of vacuums and it turns out that the Dyson has been nothing but problematic for her. (For the reasons noted above.)  She "hates" them.  
For what it's worth, her favorite brand is the Electrolux sold on Amazon.
My advice is to look and play with one before you buy it unseen.  For those for whom it's a good fit, congratulations.  But, for me, I can't return it fast enough to get an Electrolux.
Moral of the story:  Before buying any new appliance, ask someone who works with them for a living.