ID: B00006IV0Q-RMLSLHWAHFLD0-AYNOQGI31ZBGV
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Presto-02811-12-Cup-Stainless-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: AYNOQGI31ZBGV
ReviewerName: D. Ricker
Date: February 6, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Finally!  Hot, smooth coffee!  (Presto 02811 12-Cup Stainless Steel Coffeemaker)
Content:
Ok, I normally don't do reviews but when our Krups thermal drip coffee maker died a couple of weeks ago, followed by a  time-consuming and not-just-a-little-bit annoying process of trying to find a new one, the reviews we read during that process were extremely helpful in figuring out what we were going to do, so I decided to do my part also.  
Our Krups lasted a good 6 years and made decent coffee but the last several weeks before it died, we started noticing that the coffee wasn't hot...actually, not even drinkable.  We had to microwave just to get it hot enough to drink.  Also, even though we used filtered water and cleaned it regularly, drip coffee makers are just prone to mold after awhile.  We started noticing a strong mold smell in the water well and eventually, even our coffee started to carry the smell.  When we started looking for a new one, we made a short but critical list:  1)coffee needs to be hot (not requiring any microwaving), 2)it needs to be smooth, not bitter, 3) and it needs to be strong.  
In order to avoid the bitter, we thought about going with another thermal one to avoid that burned taste that comes with sitting on a warming plate.  But going with a thermal means coffee won't be very hot at all.  Argh.  I was about to give up when out of the blue, I remembered house-sitting for some people years ago who had a Presto Percolator like this one.  It made the best coffee I had ever tasted, but for some reason, I had totally forgotten about it.  So, I started searching on Amazon and found this one, and after reading all the reviews decided this was exactly what we needed. 
We've had it a week, and I am thrilled!  Our coffee is hot...we're talking "let it cool down first" hot!  And it's so smooth...not at all bitter.  And here's the best part: the basket doesn't hold as much coffee as our drip filter did so the first day I made coffee, I could only use 6 scoops of coffee, instead of my regular 8.  I was concerned that it would be watery-what's-the-point coffee but it wasn't!  It was fabulous...as strong as we normally drink it.  So, now I can use less coffee and still have it as strong as we like it.  
The only issue someone might have with this is the issue with grounds in your coffee.  I have two suggestions: use a filter (we use the regular 4-cup basket filters and push a little hole through the center) and use a little strainer as you pour your coffee into your cup.  I bought a 50 cent strainer that looks like a big spoon and place it over the mouth of my cup as I pour; there are usually a few grounds that escape the filter and the strainer catches those. 
If you don't want to mess with the possibility of a few grounds in your coffee, or if you want to be able to program your coffee to start in the morning, this may not be the coffee maker for you.  But if you want really hot, very smooth yet still able to be strong coffee, you will not be sorry you bought this.  Also, because it's just a stainless steel carafe and all of the parts are washable, there are not mold issues either!  We love it.