ID: B000TKDQ5C-R2WATDI8UG3RVH-A2BXMHV2B0QRCM
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Lasko-754200-Ceramic-Adjustable-Thermostat
ReviewerID: A2BXMHV2B0QRCM
ReviewerName: K. Robertson
Date: December 10, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: A little dynamo!!
Content:
When I needed some space heaters, I turned to the web and to Amazon to read reviews, like I do with most everything I buy.  This Lasko heater got rave reviews, but I thought it was too small for what I needed -- using it to heat an average-sized room instead of relying on my oil furnace (I'm hoping to save money, as oil's price is ridiculous).  But I bought it anyway, and today I received my second one!  This little thing is truly amazing to me.  I can just compare it to all that heat that comes out of a little hair dryer.  
Let me give you an example.  I sleep without any heat at all in the house, and two nights ago, the outside temperature got down into the 30's.  I woke up, and the thermostat in my living room read 50 degrees.  I cut on my Lasko heater, and, within 10 minutes, the room was a toasty 68 degrees!  I actually used it to heat up the room, while an oil-filled radiator heater was just clicking and clacking and starting to heat up a bit.  (I then used the radiator to maintain the heat that the Lasko produced.)  
Another observation is that the cord is pretty thick and it doesn't get very hot when in use like another heater I have.  I read that it's normal for cords on heaters to get a little warm, but I still don't like that because it makes me feel that it could overheat and catch fire. 
This heater is much smaller than I thought it was, and is just a little bigger than a 5 lb bag of flour.  It is easy to carry around with the handle area in the back of the unit, and it doesn't get hot to the touch, so you can pick it up right after you turn it off.  The back of the unit accumulates dust, and you can vacuum off the grate.  There are 3 settings:  fan only, low, and high.  Another dial adjusts the temperature up or down, and a nice feature is that you can adjust the temp along a whole dial, instead of in 5-degree increments like some other heaters.  
I will recommemd this heater to anyone and everyone!