ID: B000JQZ30M-R2DSCBD6CH0J7B-ANNVH7JQKBNMJ
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Lasko-6410-Designer-Oscillating-Ceramic
ReviewerID: ANNVH7JQKBNMJ
ReviewerName: Parker Wolf
Date: December 8, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great little heater
Content:
I bought one of these a few years ago from Wal-Mart -- although I bought the one with a remote and didn't receive the remote, I still love the heater.
My favorite aspect is the timer. I usually don't need all night heat -- just for the first hour or so and then if I wake up cold, maybe another hour in the middle of the night or early morning. I always hated using heaters that I would turn on when I went to bed and then I would wake up all hot and have to get out of bed to turn them off. But with this heater, you can set the timer for anywhere between 1hr to 7hrs and it will shut itself offw hen it reaches the time limit set.
I also like that you can set it to 60-65-70-75-80-85 degrees so it doesn't have to stay on all the time, it can turn on, heat up to what you set it to and turn off.
And how can you beat the look -- people see this thing and don't even realize what it is at first because it just looks like a piece of pottery or a vase or something sitting in the corner of the room.
I am now living in a house with no gas and the electric wall heaters (the ones that work anyway) are not very economical so I am relying on plug-in electric heaters. This heater warms up my bedroom or office within minutes - both rooms are about 10'x12' and it quietly (note: not silent, just quiet) disperses the heat throughout the room.
I recently needed another heater so I wouldn't have to keep taking this one from my office to my bedroom all the time and I tried to save $8 by buying another Lasko heater for $32 .. and WOW what a disappointment that was! The other one barely heated up the 3-5' around it and after 30 minutes, I was still sitting at my desk cold and wishing for more heat. That one was the same company, same wattage, same size, same everything .. but it just didn't compare to this one!
So, I went and got this heater out of my bedroom, exiled the other heater to my very small kitchen, and I am back on-line to order another one of these heaters. The fact that it is Prime eligible makes me want to order it just that much more.
Bonus: I recently figured out that the remote I have for my oscillating fan I use in the summer also turns this heater on and off! ;o)