ID: B000EPHQNA-R1US3BY9RQ0DTR-A304GUEPCPYM3Z
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-shuffle-Bright-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A304GUEPCPYM3Z
ReviewerName: citan-uzuki "citan-uzuki"
Date: January 31, 2007
Helpful: 4 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Awesome Microplayer
Content:
The IPod Shuffle is the smallest member of the IPod family.  It is also a single-purpose device.  It is only a music player.  And just like the other IPods, a lot of thought went into its design as far as aesthetics are concerned.  
The Shuffle comes with a small dock that serves multiple duties.  The dock allows the Shuffle to connect to your computer or laptop.  It is also the charging cradle.  The same jack, or port, that powers the headphones also serves as the charging port and the pc connection port.  The USB port also supplies the current to recharge the Shuffle's battery.  Basically, this is a very efficient, and a very minimalists design.
Loading songs from iTunes is very easy.  Just make sure that you have the latest version of iTunes on your computer.  The 1 GB capacity is more than adequate for my intended use of the system.  And, since the system will only hold songs (no video), that should be plenty of space for most users.  Sound quality is quite good.  Perhaps you can even improve that by upgrading and buying a more expensive set of headphones.  
Perhaps the biggest attraction of this system is it's small size.  Perfect for those situations that call for you to be discrete.  What is an example of a situation that might call for having a very discrete music player?  Ok, picture this scenario.  You're a college student and you already have a 4.0 grade point average.  But you still have to attend that boring lecture on tax laws in order to fulfill the attendance requirement for your business law class.  Ok, obviously, you wouldn't want to get caught listening to your music instead of paying attention to the professor talking about how, in his opinion, graduated income taxes affect the emotional cycle of the average housewife.  This little shuffle is perfect for that, especially for those large classes that are held in auditoriums instead of traditional classrooms.  Please understand, Citan does not encourage this type of irresponsible behavior.  The pursuit of knowledge, and your desire for intellectual development, are more important uses of your time than listening to your IPod.  That is, unless you're old man promised you, in writing, that you're gonna inherit ten million dollars.  
Do you like to listen to music while working out?  The Shuffle is the perfect size for that.  The built in clip can attach to just about any part of your clothing.  Well, ok, there are exceptions.  No doubt some  people enjoy working out, while wearing as little as possible.  You know, that Jessica Biel lookalike with a perfect body that hangs out at the local gym?  The Goddess that has a "bareable" physique?  Yeah, that's the one.  The one whose outfit can compete with the Shuffle's minimalists design?  Perhaps even the Shuffle won't find an attachment point in her outfit.  Ok, ok, we've gotten sidetracked.  Back to the Shuffle.
The Shuffle itself feels durable.  And there are no moving mechanical parts to wear out.  The headphones might not last the life of the system though.  Especially if you use the system while working out.  In my experience, sweat will eventually destroy the headphones.  Sweat gets inside the phones, dries up, and perhaps leaves a buildup that will prevent them from functioning after a while.  But they are easily replaced.  I believe that it will be the battery that will determine the life of the system.  As long as the battery continues to function properly and hold a charge, the system will be useful.  
I recommend this system for anyone who needs to be able to listen to their music in a discreet manner.  The Shuffle also makes a good workout companion for those who like to listen to music while they sweat away the pounds.  Users who need to have a multi-function device will obviously have to look elsewhere.  Consider a Zune or a Nano if you want to show off pictures of your children, sweetheart, or pet.