ID: B0002U9L12-R1U71ZL8Q54J4K-A1ZW7XQSLP62T2
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Mr-Coffee-Thermal-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1ZW7XQSLP62T2
ReviewerName: M. M. Nelson
Date: February 12, 2005
Helpful: 34 of 35
Rating: 4.0
Title: S'kay....
Content:
It works - and I don't mind twisting a lid half-way open to pour coffee... I'm rough & tough...
I grind my own organic beans, so I'm a bit picky about burnt-flavored brews... Burning it hurts it's constitution - therefore just won't do... I like my coffee strong... I like it to reach out and grab me by the throat while gulping it down, shouting, "I'm coffee!!!" - with no other surprises...
Many of the varied coffee makers I've used over the years have tended to muffle the flavors.   I suspect it may be their water sprinkling systems - I dunno...  All I know is this coffeemaker makes it full-body, full strength - and with a wee less beans than with other machines, too...  And because I drink my coffee thick and mean - God knows that I really don't need large volumes of the stuff..! So a couple of cups a day is all I want to get me into my wide-awake, work, and gab-alot mode... The carafe makes four mugs-full and that's enough for me and the spouse - with another pot for an after-dinner dessert, perhaps.
Ok -Pros- I think this coffeemaker makes coffee plenty hot enough - yet without the fear of it being overly cooked.  Perhaps some people are used to hot-plates, common on other coffeemakers - which does tend to make for hotter (often cooked) brews...  The timer and the other controls are easy to read and use...  It's not hard at all to clean, if you rinse out the pot and filter cup with hot water right after the machine's been emptied, and then wipe the machine down where needed... 
You're also going to need a type of bottle brush to scrub the inside of the carafe, occasionaly, and, rarely, for the water resevoir, but it's not all that bothersome...
And -Cons- It does take getting used to living with the stainless steal thermo-carafe...  It also takes an extra step and hand to work the lid - but becomes easy, once you get used to lining up the arrows in order to close for brewing - and half-open for pouring...  Plus I discovered that by screwing the lid shut - it has kept the flavor and richness of the coffee contained - much better than those breezy flip-lids of the glass pots do... So I've grown to appreciate it - lots, actually... It's weightier-bottom, ace-of-spades shape does make it a bit awkward  at first in pouring that last cup, but I've gotten used to it... 
So, Four Stars**** from me..! - This particular Mr. Coffee coffemaker does brew an excellent pot of coffee, in my humble oppinion - with the only minor drawback in learning to live with the thermo-carafe...
There are some folks that like blistering-hot coffee - but not me... I prefere it hot - yet not painful, and so with my other coffeemakers I found myself turning the things off as soon as they finished brewing, so the hot-plates wouldn't burn the coffee as it sat there, sometimes hours on end - while staining the sides of the glass carafes those interesting baked-on patterns in shades of brown... This, of course, made the first cup hot - but then the rest of the pot would become luke-warm to cool - so then my microwave oven came into play... 
Now it's nice to have warm, eye-popping coffee, without the use of an extra major appliance - and the added electricity expense for either the microwave or the hot-plate...
And besides, microwaving a cup brewed from organic hoity-toity beans - well, it just ain't goshe'...