ID: B0002SP6AY-RQ0MFD645MAUX-A2VIFZ0H7XCKP1
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Hunter-Company-44360-Programmable-Thermostat
ReviewerID: A2VIFZ0H7XCKP1
ReviewerName: NM02
Date: October 12, 2005
Helpful: 61 of 63
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best $50 I've Spent
Content:
This thermostat is worth every penny!  It does exactly what it should do, and the instructions were perfect for my heating/cooling system.  I didn't have any problems putting it in.  
What the other review didn't mention is that this thermostat has extra features over the other Hunter models.  The big difference is the Energy usage information.  It tracks the amount of time that the system was on today, yesterday, this week, last week, and total since you installed it.  It's neat being able to come home and see that the air conditioning was on for only 30 minutes, or on for 2 hours.  This helps you figure out how your thermostat settings are affecting your real energy usage.  It also has a filter reset reminder, which tracks the number of hours that the system has been used with the current filter.  This is useful, since most filters say they last 3 months.  But the real lifetime of the filter is based on how much air has been blown through it.  You could run it for 12 hours a day, and it might only last one month.  On the other hand, you could run it only 10 minutes a day, and it would probably last 6 months.  With the filter reminder, it's able to tell you when you truly need to replace the filter. 
Also, the backlight works perfectly in my opinion.  It only stays on for 5 seconds after you stop pushing any buttons.  So if you are programming things, then it continually stays on until you are done programming.  Plus, if you are just checking the current temperature or setting, 5 seconds is more than enough time to read a 2-digit number.  I love this thermostat, and recommended it to a friend who loves it as well.  It's much lower-priced compared to other competitors like Honeywell, and has a nice, simple interface.  The blue backlight is gorgeous as well, and other brands don't all offer an indiglo backlight like this one does.  There really isn't anything I don't like about this product.  I HIGHLY recommend it!