ID: B0000YTYGM-RVA2VPUJEC74S-A3C0JNIC9FZFAW
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DTC-975BKN-Programmable-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3C0JNIC9FZFAW
ReviewerName: J. Biederman
Date: July 17, 2007
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best Coffee Maker on the Planet
Content:
I've owned this coffee maker for about six months now and I am nothing but impressed with how well it works.  I've read through some of the more negative reviews here and it almost seems like we're using different coffee makers.  The coffee making part of the operation seems like a standard coffee maker to me.  I pour water in, put my coffee in the basket, and press one button to start the machine.  I have never had a problem with coffee leaking or overflowing.
It's the carafe that makes this an outstanding coffee maker.  I once made a pot of coffee, drank only one cup, and left the carafe sitting for two days.  When I went to make another pot, the coffee I poured out was still steaming hot. Under normal circumstances I drink a pot of coffee over many hours and it's always hot and fresh tasting, to the last cup.  
Now there is a certain price to pay for the thermal efficiency of the carafe.  First, the lid must be screwed on tight and it did take a bit of practice to get the threads lined up on the first try.  Second, the pour rate of the coffee is slow.  The ingenuity of this carafe is a ball-bearing system that seals off the inner chamber when the carafe is sitting upright.  To pour coffee, the ball bearing slides forward to let the coffee flow.  It does take a little longer to pour a cup of coffee, but that seems a small price to pay for the engineering involved.  
I was motivated to find a thermal carafe coffee maker because the other type ends up cooking coffee on the hotplate.  Part of the problem is the quality of the coffee, but the other part is how wasteful the appliance is in terms of electricity consumption.  Most hotplate coffee makers use around 1000 kilowatts of electricity.  If a coffee maker is on for 3-4 hours per day, every day, it doesn't take long for a thermal coffee maker to pay for itself in electricity savings.