ID: B000UV4EU6-R31Y1NWM77NKY-A3OOQH73VQ97VN
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Portable-Media-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A3OOQH73VQ97VN
ReviewerName: SOMEWHERE UP THERE "mecrosoft"
Date: March 22, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Greatest Value MP3 Player Ever
Content:
At US$89.99 (current promotion), the Creative Zen 4GB is the greatest value mp3 player ever. You have 2.5" 320x240 16.7 million color, smooth and bright video playback, great for video, photos (able to zoom in on actual higher resolution) 97dB SNR, great for music (the greatest so far except X-fi enabled products), SDHC, great for expansion/add-on. It has a very small footprint, it can hide behind a credit card! It supports AAC/WMA/WMA lossess/MP3, comes with voice recorder and FM tuner. It's very user-friendly too. Get a 16GB SDHC at US$57.99 (from Newegg.com) and you have a total of 20GB, cheaper than Creative Zen 16GB(US$179.99). If you want better earbuds, consider Creative EP-630 (great bass and noise isolation) or the latest EP-830 (only available in Singapore). If you want better sound enhancement, consider getting Creative Aurvana X-fi Noise-cancelling headphones. If you want a killer MP3 player, wait for the upcoming Zen "Share?" in May 2008. Any cons? Yes, the firmware still has some bugs that may need resetting, so be prepared. The SD card has yet to be fully integrated with the main memory and unable to copy files to SD card. The shiny plastic surface is prone to scratches, so get a skin. One-handed use is possible but a bit awkward for left-handers. Left side of casing has a tiny imperfection due to plastic moulding. Once a while, a JPEG photo cannot be viewed though thumbnail shows it. Only able to drag and drop JPEG photo (not other format like GIF, BMP, PNG), video and MP3/WMA files provided it is the right format and resolution. If you charge using USB and on/off the player halfway and unplug, the player may hang. You can reset using the pin hole, press and hole, then switch the player on again. If it cannot work, continue charging till full and use the recovery tool from Creative's website. Future firmware upgrades should resolve those bugs and SD integration issues. Other features that are missing include built-in speaker, wi-fi/ bluetooth/web-access. You cannot find any equivalent high quality player today.
GAPLESS PLAYBCK:
There is gapless playback (I tried with Slow Dance CD, the songs are all "joined" that you need gapless playback to enjoy) provided the songs are encoded in 192kbps or lower. I tried WMA 192kbps and it works. But 320kbps and WAV (lossles) there is no gapless playback. Windows Media player provides gapless playback till 320kbps from my investigation. If you use WAV (lossless)there is no gapless playback too for Windows Media player.