ID: B000BPIOC0-R2HNJDK8JEBN9T-A1K5DUV1L52MUD
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Holmes-HFH105-1500-Watt-Portable-Electric
ReviewerID: A1K5DUV1L52MUD
ReviewerName: Bonnie Sayers "autismfamily"
Date: October 24, 2004
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 3.0
Title: Not as good as the HFH104
Content:
These portable electric heaters are small in size but have given off ample heat when needed in a pinch in those early morning hours when trying to get kids out the door for school.
Since I was already familiar with the model HFH 104, that I sold over the summer on eBay, I figured the model HFH 105 would be similar. They both have the two heat settings of 1000 and 1500 watts and the power light plus a fan only setting. Also included in both models are the auto safety shut-off and the cord wrap. 
The carry handle and cord wrap are easier to utilize in this model of the Holmes Portable Electric Heater, HFH 105. It is advised not to use an extension cord unless you absolutely have to, and with limited electrical outlets in the duplex we reside in I have to use extension cords through out the house. I have only utilized these heaters in the living room and for limited time in the morning and evening hours.
This is a compact design, but it resembles a flimsy version in a dark drab gray shade. The switch is located on the right side and turns from fan to low and high heat setting. This unit has been tested beyond the UL standards and comes with a booklet showing ten safety tips for use and care of the heater. This is similar to the other version. Basically the heaters should not be used in bathrooms or outdoors and nothing flammable should be near it or bedding or curtains. The cord should not be placed under a rug and do not insert any foreign objects into the unit. 
The fan setting worked very well giving off some cool air and tricked my son into thinking heat was coming out. I was not as satisfied when making the purchase the first few days with the heat output compared to the HFH 104 unit. That model seemed to heat the room quicker and more efficiently. The pedestal base is flimsy on this unit and appears cheaply made. This unit was always placed flat on a surface intended for such items. There would never be any other items on the same table as the heater when it was turned on. 
This is cheap, easy to carry, but smells like smoke when you first turn it on.