ID: B000WG6YF2-R3R9RXJ5HNGVBE-A3ESMG31XIRL1R
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Red
ReviewerID: A3ESMG31XIRL1R
ReviewerName: David
Date: July 16, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 3
Rating: 2.0
Title: There are MUCH BETTER Players!
Content:
The thing that annoyed me about this product was the lack of an EQ which leads to a flat, non dynamic sound - acceptable enough but could have impoved the sound so much more - especially at this asking price!  I have come from the highly regarded Meizu M6 and Creative products that offered an EQ and the sound was *vastly* superior and in Meizu's case, much cheaper!
The software is the deal breaker here.  In true legendary Windows fashion, it's clumsy.  Buggy!!  Slow!  Huge.  Resource hog.  Unintuitive (learning curve)!!  There is no way to drop files in from Windows Explorer (like the Meizu).  You are anchored to this clunky software which is surprisingly huge when downloaded from the internet.  The one thing it does well is automatically download pictures from the internet to make your songs pretty on the player and software....hurrah  :=/ .   If you come from Apple Ipods, you're used to these anchors so you're probably broken in and won't complain as much as someone coming from open environment mp3 players.
The other thing that's annoying is its lack of Divx support.  Most all media files on the net are Divx.....another huge deal killer.  I'm not wasting times to convert videos to a format Zune finds acceptable.
Other things:  playlist is rather useless.  Radio is competent.  Volume is too LOW!!  I have great hearing but the amount of juice it gives thru several high sensitivity headphones I own is unforgivable!  Mind boggling.
Aside of all this, the unit is solidly built, scroll works fine, screen is pretty.  I do see the animations from song to song kind of stutter, so I can foresee stall/crash issues in the future.
I'm returning this unit as I KNOW there are better players out there.  I bought this on an experimental lark to see how Microsoft has been doing all these years with their MP3 players.  Grade:  D.
If you want a great sound player that's still offered in market, start with the Cowon stuff.  Cowon D2 for something small/big screen.  Cowon S9 for something itouchish.  For workouts, the highly lauded Sandisk Clip is exceptional sounding to audiophiles due to its Wolfsong chip and cheap!  No software limits on these players - no brainer easy to use.  All have radios.  I foresee the upcoming Zune HD will carry similar handicaps as other Zune products so there is NO reason to wait for it.   
As for me, I'm going Sandisk Clip for exercise, Cowon S9 for videos and to carry my larger music library.  Case closed.