ID: B0000YTYGM-R3L9ZW5BE01VO9-A3UFOV45SSJM17
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DTC-975BKN-Programmable-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3UFOV45SSJM17
ReviewerName: Jere L. Hough "Truthseeker"
Date: February 19, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 3.0
Title: Coffee connoisseur - Great while it lasted!
Content:
I'd have rated it 4.5 stars if it had not started leaking badly after 1.5 years or so.  Cuisinart service was little or no help, as it was out of warranty, and offered no repair advice or parts replacement service.
Up until it sprang the severe leaks it had been the best coffee maker I'd ever had, if for no other reason than the superior 12 cup stainless steel thermos carafe.  eliminating the hot plate, or appropriately named "burner" may be the greatest step forward home coffee makers have made in the last 30 or so years.
I've always turned the burner off after pouring the first cup anyhow, but sometimes don't get to it fast enough, and the strong, scorched acrid taste is already burned into the batch.
I always use the best fresh whole organic fair-traded coffee beans I can find regardless of price, and grind them just before brewing.  I also use fresh filtered water.  I'm really picky about my coffee, as is my wife.  The Cuisinart replaced an 8 cup Krups coffee and espresso machine that still works fine but for a chipped pouring spout on the glass carafe.  The only problem (con) the Krups had was the burner plate.  Those things really should come with an option to shut them off.  Much better taste if microwaved for a few seconds to reheat warm coffee to hot than when left to sit on a burner.  Even then the coffee starts oxidizing when exposed to air, as is all regular carafe systems.
The thermos carafe has a sealed lid that keeps air out, and prevents most of the oxidation as well as preventing all the nasty scorching effects of sitting too long on a "burner".  Coffee kept in a good thermos with the lid properly sealed can taste better 24 hours later than the same coffee sitting on a burner for an hour.  All you need is 30 seconds in the microwave and its almost as good as fresh-brewed.
Instead of getting another Cuisinart, after speaking with their customer service dept, we've decided to try the Zoriruchi 15 cups thermos model.  
The only real cons to the Cuisinart were the fussy brew basket being difficult to seat and the basket swing-arm container not always closing properly.  Either of these problems that are overlooked by hurried or careless people can result in coffee all over the counter and floors.  The lid is also a bit tricky to seat correctly, and this can result in coffee spillage when pouring, as some have noted.
Overall, even with some flaws, this was the best coffeemaker I'd ever owned (and I'm 70) until it recently died after 1.5 years of use.