ID: B00006F2MI-R37M0NN7TEZZKA-A18HFVKYT1Q814
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Grind-Brushed-Chrome
ReviewerID: A18HFVKYT1Q814
ReviewerName: Beats Fan "Zeke 46"
Date: November 1, 2007
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: You get what you pay for !
Content:
After receiving delivery of a faulty Braun KF600 thermal coffee maker that had to be sent back, I stepped up to the next level. The only comparison between the Braun and the Cuisinart DGB-600 is that they both make coffee. I had to write this review for the people who are on the fence and do not mind spending more to get much more. This machine is the GOODS. I have to comment on the negative remarks about this coffee maker. Let me just say it. We all know people like these whiners. We work with them, have in-laws like them and some people are stuck with family members like them. The difference here is, I can speak my mind with little payback. Are you kidding me ! This is a great, well built machine that takes a little bit more effort to clean then any other machine. In the exchange, it produces the best coffee you can make at home. The grinding cycle is active for seconds and will not wake up the average person unless you use it for an alarm. This is not an opinion, but a fact based on life experience and submitted in defense of a great product. Please DO NOT let the negative reviews sway your decision. I am glad that I kept reading reviews that were positive, while profiling the others. The decision then, became less of a risk. This is a GREAT machine and my feedback is not meant to offend anyone, but to make others aware that there are still too many people who want more than the market will bear. Buy this machine and please join me by providing another positive review. You will love this coffee maker. My first Cuisinart Product, with many more in my future. While I'm handing out compliments, Electronic Express had brand new ones in stock at a very reasonable price and it was delivered and making coffee in my home in under 48 hours. That is service, at a very fair price. Amazon is the STANDARD and the new benchmark their competition has yet to overcome. I guess you can say I am happy with my purchase!