ID: B000A3WS16-R2UHRJYZ1XOHOK-A24I0QWXN87D73
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Video-White-MA002LL-Generation
ReviewerID: A24I0QWXN87D73
ReviewerName: Stephen Crane "Finneas"
Date: December 28, 2005
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 3.0
Title: No doubt that iPod is good, but could be better
Content:
The Ipod has many good qualities. It has an excellent user interface ( which was taken from Creative)and releases endorphines in the brain during usage do to its visually pleasing shape. It has a sleek design, a photo viewer (above average) and a video viewer (average). Whether or not this ipod is right for you depends on your needs.
        If you are soley interested in audio, then this player does a pretty nice job sorting and orgainzing your files, and itunes is relatively easy to use. However, it is important to note that the ipod does not support many different files, and that many other mp3 players do. For instance, a different 30gb mp3 player that supports wma's ( a smaller music file than the mp3) can hold up to about 15,000 songs. This player is limited to only mp3's and wavs, and can hold about 7,500 songs. These players are priced the same! If having double the amount of songs is more important to you than an aesthetically pleasing device, then i recommend buying something other than the ipod. I dont think that enough people are aware of the importance of compatible file diversity in a player, and that too many people are caught up in the "apple craze". 
       This is not a PVP first! The video player should be viewed as a nice bonus, but again does not support as many file types other players such as iaudio, iriver, archos AV series, and Zen Vision. The Ipod does work fine, and does everything I expected it to do, but I wish I had waited for the Zen Vision M. (Is similar to the ipod in browsing abilities and interface, but has a nicer screen and a larger array of software, audio, and video compatibility. It should be on shelves in the US for Jan 2006) 
       The ipod also tends to screw over their customers by forcing all software and accessories to be apple oriented, and as some other users said before, if the files arent in the right apple format, then they wont upload to the player. Also the ipod screen has only about one fourth the amount of colors that other players do (like the Zen Vision M). A purchase of a 30$ dock is also required in order to charge without the computer via usb. 
       If battery life is your most important factor in buying a player, the iaudio X5L boasts a 35 hour life after one charge, while the ipod and most other players have a 15 hour battery life. 
         Overall the ipod is more than sufficient for the casual music player, and will satisfy the needs of most people. However, if you are a person with more advanced music and video needs, then I suggest a different player. I'm not knocking the ipod, but I do feel that other devices outperform it in some aspects.