ID: B000EPLP3C-RSFBFKDMOKKVO-A3KU9ZY5PIT0RF
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A3KU9ZY5PIT0RF
ReviewerName: Scott M. Wishart "Scotto"
Date: January 28, 2007
Helpful: 20 of 29
Rating: 4.0
Title: Honest Review
Content:
I just spend a few minutes reviewing the so called "reviews" here and its obvious that the iPod crowd feels threatened so they just post a crap review and give the Zune one star.  The one star reviews are totally wrong.  Here is an honest assesment of the Zune.
I bought one if these for my 14 yr old daughter for Christmas.  We unloaded it from the box and installed the software.  Zune requires Win XP or Vista to work.  If you dont have either of these operating systems contact the Zune toll free number for advice before buying the Zune.  Do Not Buy a Zune if you have an Apple computer.  I was so impressed with my daughters Zune I bought one for myself. 
I'd recommend downloading the latest Zune software from the official Zune web site instead of using the included CD.  After the software is installed you are instructed to connect the Zune.  It performs a firmware update.  I think this is a great feature since it checks for updates regularly.  After the firmwear update you have the option to set up a Zune marketplace account.  You dont have to do this but you will need to if you want to buy songs from the Zune market place.  If all you want is to sync the music ripped from your CDs then you will not have to set up an account.
The next step is setting up a name for your Zune.  This is for the WiFi feature and so your computer recognizes your player.  After this housekeeping you are asked to set your sync options.  The default is for it to auto sync all the music on your computer.  You can set the software to auto sync photos and videos too but they are off by default.  These options can be changed later at any time.  If you leave them off you will have to manually sync the photos and video you want on the player.  I left them off since I didnt want all my photos synced.
I have just over 7GB of music on my computer. It took about10 minutes to do the initial sync.  I'm sure that this will vary depending on your computer.  I have read that some people have trouble having the computer detect the Zune when connected.  Microsoft recommends that you plug the sync cable into one of the USB ports on the back of your computer if you have a problem.  I didnt have any trouble.
The Zune Software is very similar to Windows Media Player 11.  You manage your music library from the software.  You also manage the music on your player via the software.  You must use the software to add and/or delete music, photos, and video from the player.
Once your files are on the player and it is fully charged you disconnect the player and its ready to go.  This thing couldnt be easier to use.  The controls are a 4 position "wheel" like switch with a center button.  There is a single button to the right and left of this main controller.  The wheel works as a selection navigator and the volume control.  The center button acts like the Select or Enter key.  The right button is the play/pause/on/off button.  The left button backs you out to the main menu either one step at a time or straight to the main menu if you hold it down.  
The main menu is simple to understand.  The choices are Music, Videos, Pictures, Radio, Community, and Settings. Anyone that says the Zune is hard to use has never used it.  Music can be listed by album, artist, playlists, songs (titles), or genre.  Selections are listed in alphabetical order.  Photos are nested in  folders the same as you have them on your computer.  This is good and bad.  If youhave some logical order to your pictures you'll be fine.  If you have them hap hazzard on your computer they will be hap hazzard on the Zune.  I created a Zune Photos directory and then just loaded my photos in there in logical directories and it worked out fine.  I have also put a few videos on the Zune and they look great. Zune only supports WMV video format so if you have videos in another format you'll have to get a converter.
I did have a few problems with the Zune.  My daughters Zune needed the cable to be plugged into the back of the computer.  Mine did not.  
The first Zune I recieved (the one I bought for myself) was defective and had to be returned.  The one I got as a replacement has worked flawlessly.  These were the only problems.
There are a few things I dont like about the Zune.  
You can only delete files from the device using the software while the device is connected to your computer.  
You cant move photos to folders you specify without using a program like windows explorer.
You cant use music files you downloaded from a "Plays for Sure" music service, but you can convert your music files from iTunes.
I'm leaving alot out.  I really like this player.  Its fun and easy to use.  There are next to no instructions in the box but you shouldnt need any.  All you need to do is install the software, plug in the Zune when instructed to and then follow the onscreen instructions.  It was a piece of cake.  Hey.... If I could do it anyone can.
If you are considering the Zune go and test one before buying.  I dont know how this compares to an iPod video since I dont own one but I have used an iPod non video and the Zune is far superior.