ID: B00021RFY6-R1WZ5IMMNSPKUO-A2KRLSDXNPCAZG
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Factory-Reconditioned-Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Coffeemaker-Brushed
ReviewerID: A2KRLSDXNPCAZG
ReviewerName: P. P. COOK III "Tad Cook"
Date: February 26, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Solution to door popping open
Content:
I love my DGB-600BC, but have had the problem with the basket popping out. I talked to product support at Cuisinart, and their suggestions were helpful.
One suggestion was that I had the grinder too full of beans and was using too much water. Only fill the beans up to the line below the edge of the grinder, not up to, or over the top.
It is possible to fill it over the rim, since the clear top keeps all the beans inside, and this is a temptation for those of us in Seattle who love our coffee strong.
Also, using more water is a temptation when we want more coffee.  Mine is marked for up to 10 cups inside the water cistern, and it is possible to use more.
But if I put in 8 cups, less steam is generated, and the door is less likely to pop out.  By the way, these are 5 ounce, not 8 ounce "cups".  So 8 cups will give me about 40 ounces of coffee, or 1 quart plus 1 standard 8 ounce cup.
The support person also suggested I clean the latch mechanism with a Q-tip., which helped also.  If you are finicky about making everything inside LOOK really clean, with no stains, this is probably not the product for you, although myself I have always noticed this problem with automatic coffee makers, which always collect coffee stains.
The instructions say not to immerse the coffee maker, but I have taken mine down to the basement laundry room, placed it in the sink, and sprayed the thing inside with a pressurized stream of water.
I let it dry for a long time before using it, and had no problem with the electronics, which are pretty well sealed from moisture, I suspect.
I bought mine refurbished, probably 6+ years ago, and with daily use I think the latch mechanism does wear down, contributing to the messy pop-out, which is a nightmare if I have set it to grind and brew coffee in the morning before I rise.
This makes a huge mess, similar to the times (twice over the years) when due to my advancing age and forgetfulness, I forgot to put a filter in the basket.  The grounds clogged the spring loaded mechanism that drains coffee into the thermos when the thermos is in place, and the basket fills up and overflows.  Same thing happened a few times when I forgot to replace the thermos into the coffee maker.
No fault of the design, of course, just stupid user error.
Cuisinart was very generous about sending me a free basket and basket lid when I called, in case they were contributing to the problem.
But ultimately, as the latch mechanism wears down, there are no new parts available to repair this.  When customers send an in-warranty unit in for this kind of repair, Cuisinart just gives them a new one, so if you own one that is out of warranty, your only solution would be to purchase a new one, a solution I didn't like.
But I found the ultimate hack (what the techies these days call solutions that my father referred to as "jerry-rigged") that solved the pop-open problem.
I tried rubber bands to hold the basket in during brewing, but this didn't work because the front of the door that holds the basket is actually recessed nearly 1/4 inch from the front face of the sides, so it could still pop out a little bit, enough to make a mess.
What finally worked was to use a 19-inch bungee cord, wrapped around the coffeemaker at the filter door level, holding something soft and at least a half inch thick against the front.
I cut a 5 3/4 inch wide strip, about 12 inches long of some perforated soft rubbery shelf liner that I found in a close-out bin at a discount store.
I enclosed several of those large Papermate Pink Pearl pencil erasers (about 2 1/2 x 13/16 x 7/16 inch) in the shelf liner, with the erasers vertical (referencing the way they will be placed against the coffee maker door) inside the 5 3/4 inch wide strip, and wrapped the strip round and round vertically with a couple of layers now covering the erasers.
The erasers stay inside the wrap, because they are rubbery and so is the shelf liner.
Then I place the wrap (which is now about 3 x 3/4 x 5 3/4) against the door, with the 3 inch side vertical, and hold it in place with the bungee cord, fastened to itself in the rear.  I did it myself, but a third hand from someone else would help.
You could probably just use a sponge or a rag in place of the above.
This hack probably isn't for everyone, but it works great for me, and seems to be an inexpensive permanent solution to the filter door problem.  My filter door NEVER pops out, and I suspect I could even use more beans and water, as referenced above.
My wife was horrified when I sought to fix this, because I originally planned to buy a giant C-clamp to hold the thing in place.  I found one at a used hardware store, but I knew she would hit the ceiling if she saw this giant clamp encircling the Cuisinart, so I sought a simpler solution, which works for both of us.
Tad Cook
Seattle, WA