ID: B000FK850C-R2FPTV0A2C9IA8-A1TDR47HOR9ZP3
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: SH-1508-Tower-Ceramic-Heater-Ionizer
ReviewerID: A1TDR47HOR9ZP3
ReviewerName: S. E. Ray "Inndesign"
Date: December 30, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Bought Four of Them
Content:
I bought one of these, then another, then another and finally four total. My home has large rooms and the electric furnace with the electric heat pump simply ran all the time in the winter. My electric bills were well in the $450 range a month. These little marvels don't demand much amperage, and I saw my heat bill drop by $100-$150 a month.
However, two of them had problems. Yes, they are manufactured across the pond less skilled labor and proper quality control. All four lacked alignment of the rotating axis, meaning the fan is not straight after the motor bearing. Poor manufacturing indeed. This causes the motor to bind in some cases, not allowing the weak motor to spin the fan wheel. If you note heat from the top of the grid but no air or hear squeaking, you have just purchased a misaligned unit. You can try to explain this to their offices, but they don't get it. I took all four apart and the issue is obvious as it possibly can be, but I am technically inclined and these things come easy for me.
By the way, if you don't feel any air blowing from the fan moving, don't keep it turned on for long. The heater still works, the intense ceramic heat rises within the units cabinet and starts to super-heat the plastic shroud. That is the smell other users complained about, less the fan working. I feel silly even having to explain this no-brainer.
The office at Sunpentown Intl in California is great though. Yes, it cost me $15 to ship for repair, but they fixed it and returned. 8 months later, it completely locked up because they did not fix the misalignment issue, they merely pumped oil into the moving parts (because they would not listen). However, they shipped a new one and had the old one picked up at their expense. Still, these are excellent heaters, the remote is wonderful and the settings are easy. The oscillation is dependable as well. Just realize, as with most any ceramic heater, it is foreign made and your chances for a bad one is about 10 to 15%.