ID: B000AQSMPO-R2ZZENWUT1HJP8-ADJKMC7AO7YN3
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-B60-Special-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing
ReviewerID: ADJKMC7AO7YN3
ReviewerName: Jayson A. Olson
Date: April 25, 2007
Helpful: 13 of 13
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great machine, but room for some improvments
Content:
As an admitted caffiene addict, the daily drudge of grinding my own beans, cleaning out the traditional pot, filling it with water, waiting 10 minutes to brew, just to possibly throw away the unused portion was becomming a hassle, not to mention a waste of time and coffee.
Now with my B60, I can begin to enjoy a cup of coffee in the morning in under 2 minutes.  I'm fascinated by the speed in which the water gets hot, and I like the idea that I'm not throwing away unused expensive coffee that never get drunk when I leave for work.
I also really like the idea that I can easily switch to tea as well, and as of this writing they finally introduced a K-cup for hot chocolate instead of just adding hot water to a traditional envelop and stirring.
Overall, the asthetic design is pleasing to the eye, and it really is pretty easy to use overall.  In one way I wish I would have purchased one sooner, but I'm glad I waited to see all the different models and competitors as well.
Pro's
  1) Heats water and ready to brew in under a minute!
  2) Pretty good selection of coffee's and teas, and now introduction of hot chocolate K-cups.
  3) Ease of use and overall cleaning.
  4) Of course not wasting unused portions of coffee with traditional coffee makers.
  5) 3 cup size slections.
Con's:
  1) Well, I guess I've always been accustomed to drinks larger than 8 oz, so when I select the 'mug' size I was a littel surprised I guess what 7.25 oz really was, or in my case wasn't. So I guess I select the 9 oz setting.
  2) I find so far that the coffee's, while rich in smell and fresh, they could be a bit 'stronger'.  As another reviewer wrote, if you are accustomed to the power of Starbucks, you may find these K-cups a little light in boldness.
  3) K-cup purchasing.  Yeah, you can do the online thing, but you can probably find K-cups cheaper if you're willing to look around beyond your grocery store.  I found them at Target, Bed-Bath-Beyond, Tully's....etc.
  4) Programming.  While the blue back-lit display is nice, it seems a tad cumbersome to program a future cup of coffee for AM drinking.  By the time it takes me to program for only '1 cup' in the morning, it's actually just faster if I turn it on and brew when I first wake up.
Improvments I'd suggest:
  1) Stronger coffee selections for those that enjoy a kick like myself.
  2) One step programming, if it can be done?
  3) Maybe add one more button for a larger size, say 10 oz, or something adjustable.  7.25oz just seems a little too little.