ID: B000VDQ38E-R3N2BBLINMQH1A-A3VU42VJD17736
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A3VU42VJD17736
ReviewerName: E. Autry
Date: February 4, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 3.0
Title: Get what you pay for...
Content:
I bought the Pet Hair Eraser to replace my Kenmore PowerMate canister vacuum that had long-since served its time (try 15 years) and died a noble death. Being asthmatic, and having two dogs (huskies at that), six cats, and a messy bird (I know, I'm a glutton for punishment) this is the first vacuum I went for. I had this one for all of an hour (yes, I used it the very night I got it) before it busted. The belt continued to turn, while the beater brush refused to turn, creating insane amounts of friction and nearly overheating several times. It was returned the very next day. However, this is merely a personal experience on one singular machine, so I do not know if this was a fluke or not. Either way it was returned the very next day in favor of another Bissel, the Healthy Home.
What I can say that is most probably true universally about this vacuum is that the attachment that was supposed to be so all-fired awesome for pulling up the pet hair is USELESS. Its nothing but a glorified lint brush, for the short time the vacuum was in working order I used the attachment for maybe two minutes. It made very little difference in the amount of hair picked up, and essentially just collected hair that I had to later pick off. Perhaps its good if you have one dog, or a cat or two, but we've got a zoo and its not up to the task.
The bin is pretty small, or maybe I just keep a dirty house. Either way it was a little annoying to keep emptying the bin. In an hour I probably had to empty it 10 times. 
The upper half of the bin, as other reviews have mentioned, really is just a trap for hair and dirt and there was a lot of reaching up there to pull out hair. Was really, really gross. I wonder if Bissell really tested the product for such things. 
The entire vacuum just seemed sort of cheap (of course for the price, that's what you get) and even a little dinky. 
On the positive side of things, the suction was EXCELLENT, although I think this rings true for the Bissell brand in general. It picked up things that my Kenmore never would have gotten even in its hey-day, and I was just a little disgusted at the things lurking in my carpet and the stuff I was breathing in. 
Really its only for light vacuuming and households with few pets, and you can get the same features sans the useless lintbrush thing for FAR cheaper (try almost 70 bucks cheaper!) by getting a Bissell CleanView.