ID: B0009VELUA-R1831P609IPAEW-A3EB7LZY4SO8S4
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-2000-Coffee-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3EB7LZY4SO8S4
ReviewerName: Shelly "food/cooking enthusiast"
Date: January 27, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: At last - a REAL coffee machine!
Content:
After faithful service and many good pots of coffee, my Cuisinart Brew Central was fading. I was going to buy another, but disliked the very hard to reach fill area. Tried a MR Coffee Anniversary model and had problems right out of the box, so back it went. I looked at a Hamilton Beach, Sunbeam, Farberware, Krups and Kitchenaid. None seemed to have the quality and the clean good looks of Cuisinart. Then I started reading the reviews on this coffee maker. I liked what I read and took pointers from the negatives. I took one of our favorite pedestal mugs with me to the store, and sure enough, it didn't fit, even with the drip tray out. Solution: I bought glass mugs (Anchor Hocking - the large ones). They hold an awesome amount of coffee and you can see when your cup is full. I also got an inexpensive plastic pitcher, 2.25 liters. That is exactly the amount for a 12 cup fill.
Pros: Clean, sleek lines, excellent design, simple controls. Well made with a hefty feel to it. Large shower head (biggest I've ever seen) that disperses water over the entire basket. Makes a rich, flavorful cup of coffee! Love the coffee guage - very cool (and useful!) The guage is accurate as is the water level. Although we have a whole house water filter, the additional charcoal filter is a plus, as is the well made permanent filter. No carafe to scratch or break. The coffee dispersing pedal works very nicely. The spill tray has circles marked on it for correct cup placement. Keeps the coffee hot and it doesn't get bitter. It shuts off automatically after 2 hours and if you need to go longer, just turn it back on. Just for fun, I kept a half pot going all day - absolutely no bitterness! Channels in the lid direct water back into the machine, rather than down the back of it, as was the problem with my Brew Central.  Far less heat (practically none!) coming out of the bottom of the machine because of the internal warming plate. Can be set to brew at a specified time. Can be set to brew small 1-4 cup batches (never gonna happen in this house!).
Cons: water fill area is rather small and located at the right side rear. Solved this little quirk by placing coffee maker on a 1/2" cutting board which can be easily slid into a comfortable position to pour and use the 2.25 water pitcher to fill. Careful pouring and you get no drips.
Tips: I suspect this coffeemaker will give years of good service if properly maintained, as did my Brew Central. Regular cleaning with vinegar or coffee maker cleaning solution, and washing the basket, filter and internal carafe after each use. All are very easy to remove and all are top rack dishwasher safe. 
All in all, a most excellent machine, made by a company I have come to rely on and trust. I give this coffee maker 5 stars - love it!!