ID: B0007QKMR8-R13L07ANDQ7PZX-A2VOS5RONUOIVK
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-Camera
ReviewerID: A2VOS5RONUOIVK
ReviewerName: J. Chen "weez"
Date: May 13, 2005
Helpful: 131 of 140
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great dSLR especially for the money
Content:
Got this camera after considering between this and the 20D.  Was very impressed with the 20D, but the price difference could easily give me a very good lense, and the feature differences are minor, so Rebel XT it is.  I am a photography enthuiast who wishes he had the budget for a canon 1D MarkII but instead have the budget of a mortal and have to pay for a personal camera out of his own pocket.
I have been reading some other reviews on this site and other sites regarding digital SLR cameras in general.  I had to admit, most of the reviewers really are better served with a point and shoot.  This is a SLR camera, it will take great pictures in automatic modes, but if you use your camera in those modes, get something like the Canon Pro1.  This camera is to be used in Av, Tv or Manual modes, maybe in Program in a pinch.  It requires you to understand WB, depth of fields, exposure metering as well as other wide array of nuances that come with a SLR camera.  If you don't want to spend some time to learn some details about photography, you will be better served with a point and shoot.  If you decide to use the attached flash for in door portrait shots, you're probably better served with a point and shoot.  If you need to frame your shot on the LCD, you're better served with a point and shoot (becasue the whole SLR concept of through the lense view of the scene, DOF checking, focus accuracy is completely lost by that opinion).  Yes the sensor on dSLR's will get dirty and require maintenance.  Some one mentioned why don't engineer design the sensor to have the opposite charge to rebel dust.  Well, dusts don't have one single polarity in their charges, so 50% of the dust will be attracted to the sensor doesn't matter what polarity the sensor is charged with.
Also, this is not a Canon 1Ds either, so it does have its limitations, but then again, people who will feel completely limited by this camera should have gotten a Canon 1D series camera anyway.
The best merit for this camera is foremost image quality.  It's extremely low in image noise all the way up to ISO 800.  ISO 1600 is completely usable if you stay below 8x10 enlargement and don't mind photoshopping your image a little.  Again, if you don't ever want to bother with photoshop adjustment of you pictures, you probably will be better served with a point and shoot.  The kit lense is of decent quality again for the price, but you're definitely short changing yourself if that's the only lense you decide for have for this camera.  If you want to buy the kit and had no intention to buy another lense, you shoud seriously be considering Canon Pro1, it's got a L glass and a good match between the lense and the body.  Buying this camera will be at most 50% of your investment if you truly want to make it worthwhile, the other 50% will be needed for buying good lenses (get the Canon 17-40mm USM L lense, the 70-200 4L zoom, and the 28-135mm as a walk-around, the Tamron 28-74 is an excellent medium range lense as well and is probably a superior substitue for the Canon 28-135 USM).
I would have to say lack of spot metering does give the Nikon D70 an advantage, but this camera does have a center metering mode with exposure lock, so it is not really a show-stopper.   Compared to the D70, the Rebel XT has superior noise level performance.  This is from my personal experience as well as photos from a wide variety of sites on the net.  Low noise level is very important to me, so if this is on your priority list, you really can't go wrong with the Rebel XT at this price point.
What I want to emphasize here is seriously consider your needs before buying this camera, to make this camera truly worth the money you spent, you need to spend a bit more of your money and a lot of more of your time on learning how to properly handle a piece of equipment like this.  Otherwise, you guessed it, Canon Pro1 is a very very good candidate.