ID: B0000SWABO-R3VQJY62PV9QLJ-AV0DCX55H9CCP
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL6984A-Harmony-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: AV0DCX55H9CCP
ReviewerName: S. McBee "Astronut"
Date: November 16, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 2.0
Title: I've lost all Harmony in my home.
Content:
He came to us gently packed, oh so cute and even light enough for the kids to try and vacuum.  We quickly named him "Jeffrey" and I just as quickly filed for an annulment!  Within 20 days the carpet head cleaner would no longer spin.  Easy fix, I thought!  Not the first time to be proven so wrong!  At the megar cost of $157.00 I could have that attachment replaced.  Obviously it happens a lot because there was quite a bidding war on e-bay for this attachment!  I took Jeffrey to the local Electrolux store only to have these two seemingly kind men laugh hysterically until one fell onto the floor, a much cleaner floor than mine because they didn't sell Electrolux any longer!!!  They informed me at that point that Electrolux as America knows it has been sold to a cheap, plastic vacuum company; gone are the days of metal cannisters that you could ride for years at your grandma's house!  The men gave it a good try to try to fix the carpet head but I left filling dumb amd angry, no Harmony at all!  Just as ticked at my mother-in-law for obviously not needing to buy a new vacuum in twenty years so thus recommending this as the ONLY one and Electrolux the original for selling out their name, something they should be proud of!  Please read the link [...]  for further info I didn't know til too late.  After buying $99 dollar vacs my entire life I was honestly proud the moment Jeffrey arrived, maybe that was the problem there.  Karma gave me no "Harmony" for being so proud!  I give it 1 star for suction, it is a strong little bugger and 1 star for it's size and lightness was a nice change.  Now I'm no housekeeper of days gone by, I'm a re-incarnation of Erma Bombeck so had the Harmony picked up a few pet hairs and a cheerio now and then we'd still be living in perfect Harmony together instead of living in seperate rooms.  Jeffries been relegated to the garage where he seems to enjoy cleaning an automobile or two.  Next house, all floors not even a throw rug please!!