ID: B00006F2MI-RH51K1FKPSNFR-A388QZKC84WDDD
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Grind-Brushed-Chrome
ReviewerID: A388QZKC84WDDD
ReviewerName: W. Phillips "Coffehound"
Date: January 19, 2007
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 1.0
Title: How do I loathe thee? Let me count the ways.
Content:
I bought this coffeemaker at an auction, got it for 22 dollars. The fact that no one else bid on it should have been my first tip that it wasn't as great as I thought it was going to be. But I was convinced that anything that had the cuisinart name would have to be great, and I had seen this pot in the deptartment stores for as much as 179, so I leaped at the chance to buy one so cheaply. Got it home, fired it up with some of my favorite beans and it made a really good pot of coffee. It was loud, and after the pot had brewed cleanup was a chore, but for a good cup of coffee it wasn't much of a price to pay. Before bed, I loaded the grinder, set the machine for the next morning thinking that I was going to wake up to a freshly ground, freshly brewed cup of coffee. Instead I woke up to coffee and grounds all over my kitchen. I cleaned the pot, examined the door made sure there was nothing interfering with the opening and closing of the basket door and started all over. Little did I know it was the beginning of a trend. The door popped open with such frequency that I didn't use the timer after a few tries. When I used beans and the grinder I stood in front of the machine and held the basket door closed until it would begin to drip. Also the lid on top popped up almost as frequently, which of course would stop the brewing. But...as long as the coffee tasted good, and it did, I put up with the malfunctions.Then about 6 weeks ago the coffee started tasting horrible. An awful burned plastic taste. Nothing I did improved the flavor. I had kept it clean, ran vinegar thru it on a regular basis and I cannot understand why the taste changed so radically. So I ran out and bought a Krups, which promptly leaked water all over the kitchen after a week. Now I am using a Faberware perculator. The coffee is wonderful. Much better than anything I have managed to brew with any of my old drip machines and as it is all stainless steel, for the first time in probably 30 years, I am drinking coffee which doesn't leave a plastic aftertaste. I put up with the bad design, the malfunctions, the mess of this Cuisinart much longer than I should have. It is a shame that it was even put on the market it is such a poorly designed, poorly operating machine. The only good thing about it is the carafe. It kept the coffee hot for hours.