ID: B000NP1C5O-R169H2JPEUJH40-A21WBLB8KAFE1U
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-1D-Mark-III-Digital
ReviewerID: A21WBLB8KAFE1U
ReviewerName: Mr. Paul Walsh
Date: February 5, 2008
Helpful: 0 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Quality Product
Content:
I'm a sports photographer. I've been using this camera for a while now. I decided to give it a good testing before even writing any remarks.
There seems to be a lot of hype about the focus issue. Personally, I've never experienced the problem, and I bet the majority of photographers haven't either. Some people need to do research before blaming the camera. There are many user faults, causing the camera to seem as if it is not focusing.  They also need to check their lenses.
I shoot different sports, from rugby to show jumping, polo and horse racing. So, tracking a fast moving object (person or horse) is very important. Out of about 100 images, maybe 2 would be out of focus. Those I would more blame on myself than the camera. People really need to RTFM. There are so many custom settings, especially for focus, to enable you to use the camera to it's full potential, for whatever you use it for.
The camera is pure quality. I don't deny that there are some focus issues, but again, these are under specific circumstances. The body is solid and sturdy. It is good to hold and not too heavy. The battery life is brilliant (nearly 3,000 shots per charge). The fps is stunning. I've had to limit my burst rate to 25 frames, just so I don't fill my memory cards too quickly. :-) I did give it a good workout, using the full fps and burst rate at an event, and I was stunned.
There are just so many custom functions, that allow you to setup the camera depending on what you are doing. That is brilliant for me, since some events are at night under lights, while others are during the day, either cloudy or bright. Different saved setting sets allow me to quickly change to suit my circumstances.
For those who need a fast, reliable pro camera, this would very much be my camera of choice.