ID: B000BWE4TK-RUQQXIPZW83M6-AKZRJDJS1CHSV
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-Camera-28-80mm-f3-3-5-6G
ReviewerID: AKZRJDJS1CHSV
ReviewerName: Scott Peterson "Cameras'n'Stuff"
Date: July 16, 2006
Helpful: 24 of 24
Rating: 5.0
Title: My favorite camera!
Content:
I've had this camera for about 8 months, and positively love it.  It takes great pictures, is easy to use but has professional features, and has never failed me.  It's not the first affordable DSLR, but it is the first one geared towards consumers.  
Here's my top picks:
It's big; I have large hands, and have gotten increasingly frustrated with postage-stamp sized cameras that have buttons a lilliputian would consider small.
The battery lasts forever, I haven't ever had it run out on me, but it's nice to do some shooting, put the camera away, and take it out a few days later and it's still ready to go.  If you're really serious you can get a battery grip and double the power.
It's infrared sensitive--I put on a Hoya R72 and was taking IR pictures like regular snapshots.  Compared to my previous experience of timed exposures and hot spots this was amazing.
Lenses!  The 18-55 kit lens is actually pretty good, and will satisfy a lot of situations, but if you need something else there's a wide selection.  Pretty much any Nikon F mount from 1959 on up can be used, but you're better off with the newer ones intended for digitals.  I have a 50mm f 1.8 prime, the 18-55, 70-300, and a 19-35.  If money would ever permit I'd get a 12-24 and the VR 18-200.
It's fast!  I was used to the horridly slow autofocus of those "pro" lookalike cameras, now I can capture action and speedshots.
RAW format!  Being able to take pictures in RAW format has opened up a whole new world for me.  Many shots that would otherwise be unuseable can be fixed, and I can compltetely change the mood and feel of an image without destroying it.  
I've used this camera for timed expsures, night astronomy shots, action, and close ups.  The D70s has some high end features like fine tuning the white balance adjustment and using multiple flashes, but unless you really need those there's not that much difference between th3 D50 and D70.
There is one important thing to note:
Get an LCD protector!
I still don't understand why these cameras have an LCD in the most vulnerable area possible with nothing to keep it from getting scratched.  I use a snap-on protector which has a little flip up window, giving both protection from glare on sunny days and some armor from bumps and scratches.
The only thing I wish this camera had is what no SLR has, namely a movie mode.  It would be possible, they have the ability to raise the mirror and a special wide angle lens with a quiet focus could be made.  All it'd need is a built-in microphone and the circuitry/firmware to handle it, but we can dream, can't we?