ID: B000QR8UEK-R2WCH3NYDLPNKG-AIINKA0ZLLK67
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Lasko-5812-Automatic-Air-Flow-Temperature-Regulation
ReviewerID: AIINKA0ZLLK67
ReviewerName: Dan P. Hudson
Date: February 12, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great Electric Heater
Content:
The Lasco 5812 is a very good heater especially since it has stronger fan forced air than any other I have tried & still not loud, even stronger air flow than one costing over $90. It sends the air along the floor rather than out of the top. Moving warm air can be felt for at least 5 feet from the heater. I measured it. One serious drawback is that the thermostat even though it controls the heating of the air from a lower level of 750 watts to a high of 1500 watts, it will not cut the heater off when the thermostat setting is reached. It will only lower it to the 750 watt maintenance level. This is not a problem if the heater is located where you can turn it off yourself when the room is warm enough or the temp is too cold for it to need to shut off. Where I find a problem is in my office which is unattended for hours at a time and over night or I am away on a trip. I like to keep my computer, etc. at least 60 degrees when I am not around. Since the outside temp varies from night to day which affects the inside temp, this heater will stay on even when warm enough although it will lower to the low wattage. This means that my office could get a lot hotter than desired during the day when unattended. Because of this, I use the more expensive $90+ heater in my office even though it seems not to put out as much warm air and certainly not as strong an air flow as the Lasco 5812. The Lasco works as designed very nicely, but uses electricity even when not necessary. To be just about perfect, all it needs is a thermostat that will turn it off rather than just provide controlled high and low heat. It is great when you will be around to shut it off yourself if the temp over reaches your desired amount like in your den while watching TV. I like mine regardless. Besides, the company does not want you to leave the heater unattended for safety sake anyway...Dan