ID: B000A33B1C-RHDOKBCA15DR9-A1TCSC0YWT82Q0
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Delonghi-TRD0715T-Safe-Oil-Filled-Radiator
ReviewerID: A1TCSC0YWT82Q0
ReviewerName: GinSing
Date: December 30, 2007
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 3.0
Title: Not as useful as my other ones (see other reviews)
Content:
Earlier this year, I received an electric bill for $400! After calling the electric company, AND an electrician to find the problem, only to discover nothing abnormal, it was time for me to check out portable heaters. 
This one was my most recent purchase, having purchased two other types, I was still looking for a good oil filled radiator, which I'd heard so many good things about. I purchased this one, based on the reviews and bought it through Amazon, also.
I was hesitant, only because of reading about the 'smell'. I have Multiple Chemical Sensitivity Syndrome, a result of Fibromyalgia, and some 'smells' can actually be almost deadly for me. (I can pass OUT from smelling various perfumes, for example). Let me first say, mine had no obvious, unpleasant smell, so I was greatly relieved.
Two of my rooms have high ceilings and one of those is a large, open area, while the other is the Master. It does NOT heat my large open rooms with the high ceiling at ALL, but DOES well in my Master, which is where it STAYS.
I gave this one only three stars, for the lack of versatility and usability in MY house. Also, I had to be careful when I DID try to wheel it around, as it was hot to the touch, and when I moved it too much, and then turned it on, it did start to 'smell'. I feared that happening because it would make me very ill, so I keep it still. The room is very toasty now. This one has non-obvious heat. You only feel it from the top, not in front or out the sides, so it's very unnoticeable until you just suddenly notice the room is more comfortable! 
It does a great job as long as you understand it's functionality.
Again, I think you have to understand the capability of these heaters and decide where it will work best for you.