ID: B000A7QH64-R3D684K1188ETK-A1VQHH85U7PX0
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Shark-15-2e6V-Cordless-Hand-SV736k
ReviewerID: A1VQHH85U7PX0
ReviewerName: Avid Reviewer "A Music Fan"
Date: December 13, 2008
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Good Suction and Durable If Properly Maintained
Content:
The Shark 15.6V Cordless Hand Vac (Model: SV736N) comes with the following accessories:
- Charging Stand / Mounting Bracket
(Note: Model SV736 does not come with a charging stand.)
It also comes with 3 attachments:
  - Brush Attachment
  - Crevice Attachment
  - Motorized Brush Attachment
Cleaning Power
--------------
The suction is about as strong as a mid-range corded vacuum cleaner - plenty strong for a handheld vacuum cleaner. It's able to maintain maximum suction for about 13 minutes, after which its power starts to falter and the suction gradually drops. The usable suction it puts out lasts about 20 minutes tops. Still, it's plenty of time to vacuum out the interior of your car, clean up a small mess, or do some spot cleaning.
Even though the vacuum is being touted as having "Twister Cyclonic Technology", which supposedly helps to maintain suction longer, it is important that the dirt receptacle be emptied when it gets about half full, otherwise the suction will be significantly reduced.
The motorized brush attachment is excellent for extracting dirt and pet hair embedded in the carpet. The downside is when the attachment is on, the battery gets drained more quickly.
Maintenance
-----------
- Dirt Collection Receptacle
The frosted see-through dirt collection receptacle lets you know how much dirt has been collected. Once full, the receptacle can be easily removed and emptied.
- Filter
The filter is washable and is made of a durable material that will stand up to repeated washings.
- NiCd (Nickel Cadmium) Rechargeable Battery
There are a lot of complaints the battery capacity of the Shark diminishes over time. I suspect the diminished battery capacity that many people encounter is due to the so-called "memory effect" on the Shark's NiCd (Nickel Cadmium) battery.
"Memory effect" is a phenomenon that results when a battery is repeatedly charged BEFORE it is FULLY discharged. The result is the battery capacity diminishes because it "forgets" that it can be discharged all the way, hence the term "memory effect."
The proper way to care for a NiCd battery is to fully discharge it ("deep discharging") before fully charging it to avoid "memory effect". Diminished battery capacity due to memory effect may be reversed by putting the battery through repeated deep discharge and full recharge cycles.
After the vacuum cleaner is past putting out any useful suction power, let its battery deplete completely before charging it back up. I've had the Shark for about three years and never had a problem with diminished battery capacity.
CAUTION: The above only applies to NiCd batteries. Do not confuse NiCd batteries with rechargeable NiMH (Nickel Metal Hydride) or lithium batteries. NiMH batteries are reportedly less prone to memory effect and lithium batteries absolutely do NOT suffer from memory effect. Deep discharging NimH and ESPECIALLY lithium batteries may actually damage them.
Conclusion
----------
The Shark is a top-notch handheld vacuum cleaner that provides plenty of suction. If you're careful to observe proper battery maintenance, it should provide years of trouble-free service.