ID: B000HE8T9I-R3B53V9AY2U4VI-AWXXUOYG8Q8M3
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Infinity-Upright-Vac-2d-NV30
ReviewerID: AWXXUOYG8Q8M3
ReviewerName: Plein Jane
Date: December 28, 2006
Helpful: 5 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: I thought my carpet was clean until I saw what this picked up.
Content:
Since we don't wear shoes in the house and I vacuumed twice a week with my central vac system, I was pretty stunned when I saw how much dirt the Infinity extracted from my carpets the first time I used it.  I only admit this here to say that this is an incredibly powerful vacuum, and very easy and ergonomically comfortable to use.  I bought this because the powerhead on my central vac was starting to actually redeposit dirt globs on the rugs and it was going to cost a fortune to get it repaired.  I remembered a Eureka bagless vac I had in the attic and brought that down to use as a backup, and was pleased to see how much better it was than the central vac, but at the same time, I was sneezing a lot when I used it and realized that it was spewing dust out of its side seams.  I've been using the Eureka the last few weeks, and it was picking up a lot of dirt from the rugs, so to see how much more the Infinity got is just amazing.  This is a brand new house, so it's pretty astonishing to me how much dirt the carpeting was holding....As an aside, I think from a health standpoint I would really prefer to have no carpeting at all, but the builder insisted on it in some rooms, so I had no choice.  My last house was hardwoods throughout and was much, much easier to maintain.  So if you have to have carpeting, get an Infinity vac if you can't afford the Dyson, and really, who can?  Why pay more?  This item is very attractive looking, by the way.  I'm really glad I bought it.  Over time it will actually improve the appearance of even new carpeting by removing all the lint and fuzz that attract and trap dirt.  I've been astonished by how much better the carpeting feels underfoot since I've been using it.  The vacuum is not lightweight if you have to schlepp it up and down the stairs, but if you can get it upstairs and leave it there, this would be a great choice for maintaining bedroom carpeting.  In a few months I'm going to buy a second one to keep downstairs -- it's really a great bargain for the price.