ID: B000I0YWQK-R232SXYFM6W9NA-A2OHSL6DEL6S97
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Holmes-HCH6150-UM-Triple-Ceramic-Tower
ReviewerID: A2OHSL6DEL6S97
ReviewerName: byzar
Date: November 13, 2008
Helpful: 6 of 7
Rating: 3.0
Title: Acceptable
Content:
Only buy this if you can find it cheaper. I bought this from my wholesale club for 40 dollars. Otherwise it's not worth the money. When I originally bought this heater, I grabbed it from the top and moved it to another location in my room. After doing that, it made a really bad cranking noise every time it oscillated. I exchanged it after a week. The new heater doesn't have that problem. But I did notice this new heater blows cold air out the bottom. The manual says it will blow cold air once it reaches desired temperature to prevent overheating. But mine blows cold air on bottom as soon as you turn it on, before the temperature even gets adjusted. I'm just going to keep this one b/c its a hassle to drive and return it. The cold air blowing on bottom prevents my floor and nearby rug from getting heated so I guess that's a plus. And after leaving the heater on for a few minutes, the cold air seems to go away.
If you decide to buy this, just make sure you don't move the heater around alot. Its made of cheap plastic and the inside structure does not seem that stable. So leaving it in the center of the room should suffice. If you do decide to move it, hold it gently by the bottom base, don't grab it from the top. They didn't put handles on this thing so I guess it's not meant to be moved around a lot. 
In terms of heating, it does a good job. I have a 12 x 9 ft bedroom and this heater can warm up the room in about 15 min. It has a programmable thermostat which will automatically shut off when desired room temp is reached. There is also a remote which I can program from my bed which I like.
In terms of the smell, it does have a heated plastic smell when you first turn it on, but the smell goes away after a while. 
I am not sure how much electricity it uses since I haven't gotten my bill yet but since my family doesn't want to turn on heat yet for the whole entire house, this works just fine to heat up a small room.