ID: B000I058P4-R2PIOE1Z235HK6-A3C39AUAYQT42M
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-DE790B-Coffeemaker-stainless
ReviewerID: A3C39AUAYQT42M
ReviewerName: Ravens' Mom "Ravens' Mom"
Date: April 23, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: The best so far
Content:
I have tried many of the affordable thermal coffee makers, but this one is the best I have tried.  Many folks complain about thermal coffee makers not making coffee hot enough as I have read in many reviews.  If you are a die hard perk coffee person, you will not be happy with a thermal coffee maker so simply don't invest in one.  There is nothing wrong with the temps on these they just don't sit and get hotter on a burner, and they do not overcook your coffee if you are a slow drinker.  These coffee makers are not for someone that can drink the pot in an hour, they are for someone that may take 4 or 5 hours to drink the pot and like it to taste like the 1st cup out of the pot.  I do have to say that this maker does not drip, does not have the problems with the lid that the Mr. Coffee has and is just simply the easiest to use out of all.  The more fancy features that makers have, the more tears up.  The simplicity of this coffee maker eliminates a lot of what you have go wrong with other makers.  The last one I had before they became unavailable in our area, lasted about 8 years before things went wrong with it.  That is everyday use and most days more than one pot.  I have only had this one for about a month, but hope it is made as well as it use to be.  The screw on lid may take some getting use to for some people, but once you get used to how far to turn it, you will appreciate this more than the flip open lids because on the last 2 of those I bought, the lid was the 1st thing to break and within a couple of months of ownership, versus the last one of these I had, it took 8 years for it to crack, and 2 years later my hard water finally took its toll on the coffee maker.  I was so disappointed that I couldn't find another one, and began the downward spiral of spending a lot of money of thermal coffee makers and having no luck with them.  All that I tried in the stores tore up within usually about a year.  Return on investment was terrible.  Give this one a try, it is cheaper than most all the rest and should give you the least trouble.  I have enjoyed not having to clean my counter after each cup of coffee and it is very consistent in the making of each pot, even when I sneak a cup, which is another great feature for the less patient in the morning.