ID: B00007L9TN-RLLYPJS3EGZ8V-A295VPW9H9BB8X
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Holmes-HQH307-Tower-Quartz-Heater
ReviewerID: A295VPW9H9BB8X
ReviewerName: Michael Preyer "mailmanx"
Date: February 14, 2008
Helpful: 13 of 13
Rating: 5.0
Title: The Best Inexpensive Heater I've Found
Content:
I really like the Holmes HQH307 quartz heater. I use it to warm up my master bathroom in the morning. I turn it on before I hop in the shower. By the time I get out of the shower, the bathroom is toasty warm and I can stand in front of the heater while drying off.
I went through several other heaters over a three year period before settling on this one. I've used two different ceramic heaters, one was a low cube and one was a tower. Neither one of those put out as much heat as I wanted yet they consumed a lot of electricity. Then I tried a parabolic heater. It was much more efficient, but the beam of heat was too narrow. It would heat a portion of my body too much and the rest not enough. It wouldn't heat the room at all.
I've had my HQH307 for about three months which is long enough to verify that it doesn't cost as much to use as the ceramic heaters did, yet it puts out a lot more heat. The internal fan is powerful, but it's also pretty loud. For my purpose in the bathroom, that's not a problem. The fan setup is well designed: It pulls air in from the top and pushes it out the front between the heating elements which heats up the whole bathroom rather easily. The heating elements rattle a bit during the first few seconds of warming up, but that is standard on quarts heaters. The rattle goes away almost immediately.
The lifting handle molded into the back of the case is in a good location and stays cool. Don't mistake the bar across the front for a handle because it gets HOT!! It's just there to keep the front of the heater off the floor in case of a tip-over. I like the manual controls on the top of the heater. One turns the heater to low or high and the other adjusts the variable temperature control. Simple and foolproof.
The Holmes HQH307 quartz heater is a great value and I recommend it  without hesitation.
NOTE: I also own a Holmes HQH319U quartz heater which is about $20 more. It has the same housing and heating elements, but the fan is quieter and the controls are digital. You might consider it if you want a powerful and efficient heater that's not as loud.