ID: B000BM4U2G-R2Y45K4H40Y2BL-A3M9F7DTQQXPMO
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Labs-70PF165000000-MicroPhoto-Titanium
ReviewerID: A3M9F7DTQQXPMO
ReviewerName: 80's Dog
Date: January 28, 2006
Helpful: 20 of 22
Rating: 5.0
Title: Keeps on Surprising!
Content:
Where to start? I've bought a lot of different Mp3 players. In fact, you might say I'm obsessed with them. I also have friends who have Ipods. (bah!) The only good thing about Ipods is the wide variety of accessories you can get for them. This little Zen beats them all, hands down! I'll start with the list of cons since there are so few.
CONS:
Touchy buttons. (even with senitivity turned on low, but easy to get used to, and there is a hold button)
Can't view photos and listen to music at the same time. (?)
Has ability to record, but has no line in.
PROS: (and this will be quite a list!)
Plays WAVE,Mp3,and WMA as well. (I have everything in WMA)
Bass booster option.
Smart volume option.
Sound quality is great. I've read complaints about the bass boost being distorted. Turn on the smart volume and the disortion goes away. Crisp clean treble as well.
Smart volume also adjust for different record levels. (quite nice)
5 band graphic eq, as well as plenty of presets.
8 gigs holds tons of music and photos.
Very small. (fits in pocket comfortably)
Works as an external hard dirve, and lets you decide how much space to use for this. (128mb upto 4gigs)
Uses a standard 2.0 USB cord. (big advantage)
Charge battery while you put music or photos on it.
Not only is the battery rechargeable, but also replaceable. (you can buy extras for long trips)
Screen looks bright and clear from any angle.
Main menu is very customizable. (options, wallpaper,and colors)
Easy to navigate.
Almost no gap between songs. (good for Pink Floyd albums)
Built in microphone. Seems to record pretty well.
Has a calender where you can store reminders and events.
Not so important, but it really looks COOL!
Not a bad price for all it does.
LAST WORDS: At first I didn't like the fact that you have to use software to transfer files, but now I see why. I have other Mp3 players that are plug and play. It takes them a minute or so to boot up. Not this baby. Turn it on and it's ready to go in less than 3 seconds. The software updates the player when you close the program so that it doesn't have to boot up.
I'm not the kind of person who likes to read manuals, and with this player, I didn't have to. It's almost too easy to use, and yet full of features.
I've also read complaints about the software. If you know how to navigate windows, then software will be easy to use, and it works well.
I've only had it for 3 days, so I'm sure there are things I'm forgetting or haven't found yet. But it just keeps getting better. Has more features than I dreamed it could.
BOTTOM LINE: Buy what you want, but the Zen Micro is BETTER!