ID: B000BM4U2G-R2JH0GIUKHROPL-A2DFEDGOSK7MFO
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Labs-70PF165000000-MicroPhoto-Titanium
ReviewerID: A2DFEDGOSK7MFO
ReviewerName: C. Kormendy
Date: November 6, 2006
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Decent MP3 player
Content:
My wife has a Creative Zen Micro with the black and white LCD screen.  I liked my wife's player enough that I bought the newer Creative Zen Micro Photo for me.
One feature that I like better about the older LCD version's screen is that (when there is enough ambient light) you can view the name of the currently-playing track without having to unlock the buttons and make the backlight come on, like I have to with the Zen Micro Photo.  I suspect that this issue will arise with any player with an OLED display.
The display can be hard to read on a very sunny day.
A limitation of the player is that you can play music or display photos.  If you try to display a photo while the music is playing, the music will stop.
The player has survived a number of (unintentional) falls from my hand onto concrete or pavement (while playing) without the benefit of a protective case.  The housing is a bit scratched/dinged now, but no breakage so far.  On a couple of the falls, the player got "stuck".  The music stopped playing, the screen was on, but the player was unresponsive to any button presses including power off.  I had to remove the battery to get the player to recover.  I did a "cleanup" on the player for good measure (see the Creative Labs support site for how to execute the "cleanup" operation).
The player works well enough with the "Rhapsody To Go" music service.  However, in recent days I've had synchronization problems between player and computer, but I suspect that this may be related to the player being nearly full.
The player sounds decent enough to my non-audiophile ears.  I'm not a big fan of the ear buds that come with the player.  They sound ok, but they don't stay in my ears very well if I do anything more active than walking around.