ID: B0000A0VA9-R3LVRIFLA9AIU3-A23NSKTMSPPBTR
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Eureka-Compact-Canister-Vacuum-Yellow
ReviewerID: A23NSKTMSPPBTR
ReviewerName: Wayne "wayne"
Date: January 27, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great supplementary vacuum cleaner
Content:
Canister vacuum cleaners come in the $49 to the $600 range. Some reviewers fault this machine for not working as well as machines in the several hundred dollar range, while it would be more apt to compare this machine to ones in the $49 range.
I purchased this to replace a Eureka Rally from several decades ago. That machine served me well, and probably could have been fixed with moderate effort, but it hardly seemed worth it given the price of this replacement.  My old machine was larger, louder, and a bit less powerful. It was slightly more expensive than this replacement, even without factoring in inflation. I had a good idea of what I needed. The next task was figuring out where on the price spectrum an appropriate replacement would lie. I was at first skeptical that something at the low range would suit my needs, but I'm glad I got this.
My old machine gave me an idea of what features to look for. That one lacked automatic cord rewind, had a hose that was about 2 feet shorter, had attachments similar to Attachment Kit plus an additional larger floor brush, and on board storage for the upholstery nozzle, dusting brush and crevice tool. The 972B is smaller, quieter, more powerful, has a cord rewind, but lacks most of the tools and on board storage for the general ones. Nonetheless, it was a good deal considering that I could use my old attachments. Plus, this one has a slightly longer hose, and the extension rod is a metal telescoping one instead of fixed length plastic ones.
I was impressed by how much suction I got from a machine so small and (relatively) quiet. I was able to do a good job vacuuming cat hair off of draperies. It was from a section hidden behind a couch where years of contact made it as formidable a task as cat hair could present. I found that it did a good overall job on bare floors, carpeted stairs, moldings (its on board mini crevice tool and brush were ideal for this) as well as other hard to reach areas such as carpet/baseboard junctions. 
I have three upright vacuum cleaners and do not expect to use this one for general carpet cleaning. It can do the task, but this machine is better suited as a supplementary machine than for your primary carpet cleaner. It would take too many passes, especially for a very large room. For its intended purpose, and even touch up carpet cleaning, runners, and hallway areas this machine is well suited. In cases when you need pure suction rather than rotating brushes, this is an excellent machine.
If it came with all the attachments I use regularly, I would give it five stars. However, for the price I paid, that's probably not a reasonable expectation. Neither is on board storage if you want a machine so compact. Even if I can't fault the machine for it, you might want to consider whether a more expensive machine with more attachments is a better solution than buying this one and getting other attachments separately. You might still consider this one a good deal, given that the attachments I use regularly are just a few dollars each directly from the manufacturer. The included multi-purpose tool might be all you need for the tasks that floor attachments could fill, but not if those tasks would be your main reason for purchasing this. As a supplementary machine, this is ideal for me.