ID: B000ETXOC8-R3TNCPTXK7H1EH-A2ESZIP1ENLWZC
Category: MP3Players
Product: SanDisk-Sansa-Player-microSD-Expansion
ReviewerID: A2ESZIP1ENLWZC
ReviewerName: A. H. Sandford
Date: January 3, 2007
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Awesome Player, Great Price
Content:
I got the Sansa e250 for Christmas, and I must say I have been thoroughly enjoying it since then.  My sister got an iPod Nano at the same time, and since that seems to be the general standard in the small mp3 player industry, I will base my review on a comparison of the two.
LOOKS AND AESTHETICS
This is the one area, in my opinion, where the iPod has the real advantage.  It is slimmer and lighter and sports a cleaner design, and the case is entirely metal.  The Sansa, on the other hand, has only a metal back; the front is made of a plastic that is rather easily scratched.  The screen of the iPod also scratches less than that of the Sansa.  Nevertheless, the Sansa's screen is twice as big, and the colors are vivid and clear.  The Sansa is admittedly bigger than the iPod, but it is no means of an objectionably large or bulky size, and its thickness is hardly worth criticism. 
EASE OF USE
The user interfaces of the two mp3 players seem remarkably similar.  The most noticeably differences are that the iPod's scroll wheel is touch-sensitive while the Sansa's is mechanical.  I personally prefer the touch-sensitive version (although it does take a bit of getting used to), but I have had no problems with the other.  
One convenient feature of the Sansa is that it has a power/menu button.  Pressing the menu button below the scroll wheel shows a menu based on your selection (similar to right-clicking an object in Windows), and pressing the Power/Menu button brings you back to the main navigation menu.  I'm sure the iPod has some way of showing a submenu too, but I was not able to find it.  Another nice thing about the Power button is rather obvious: it allows you to shut off your player.  The iPod has only an auto-off feature.
A number of reviewers have complained about the difficulties involved in pressing the buttons on the Sansa.  I can see why they complain, but at the same time I don't have a problem.  You just have to press the buttons with your thumbnail.
Also falling under the "Ease of Use" category is synchronization and computer use.  I don't think one is much harder than the other, but there are more ways of adding to the Sansa than to the iPod.  While the iPod is limited to iTunes, the Sansa allows synchronization from Windows Media Player (which I use), Windows Explorer, and many other programs.  Some reviewers have complained of the difficulty of making playlists, but it actually isn't hard at all: all you have to do is find the song you want to add or delete from the playlist and hold down the select button (the large round one) for about a second, and the song is automatically added or removed from the playlist.  
FEATURES
This is where the Sansa jumps ahead of the competition.  Both players have great sound and allow the playing of music by Artist, Album, Song, Genre, and Custom playlist (the iPod adds "Composer" to the list, and its playlists are more easy to use), but there most of the similarity ends.  The iPod has games, but the Sansa has Video, Photos, MicroSD expansion, Voice recording, and FM listening/recording.  All of these features have worked fine for me, and I especially enjoy the FM feature.  I get three of my favorite stations with great reception even without plugging in the USB cable (which functions as the FM antenna; if the radio didn't work without the antenna, I don't think I'd ever want to use it).
PRICE
This factor obviously fluctuates, but the Sansa generally has a tremendous advantage in this area.
SUMMARY
The Sandisk Sansa e250 is a very nice mp3 player, with more features than an iPod Nano and a much lower price.  The face scratches easily, and I've had a few minor problems with the firmware, but these are the Sansa's only flaws.  I highly recommend this player to anyone who wants to get twice the mp3 player for half the price.