ID: B000HBAHNW-RERKLE56TC04I-A268OS0J4D1A5O
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-S5281-Callisto-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A268OS0J4D1A5O
ReviewerName: KT
Date: January 3, 2009
Helpful: 18 of 18
Rating: 5.0
Title: Dust Mite Allergies? Asthma? Get This Vacuum!
Content:
First, let me say that I have horrendous allergies, including a near-severe dust/dust mite allergy.  I also have mild to moderate asthma. Vacuuming is something that I have absolutely hated to do- not due to laziness; rather, I pay the price each and every time I use a vacuum.
I thought the answer to my woes was to purchase a Dyson DC17 "Asthma and Allergy" vacuum cleaner. It is endorsed by the Asthma and Allergy Foundation. Well, those at the foundation who made the decision to give it their blessing must have been high on some illegal substance.  Less than a week after I purchased that beast, I returned it.  During the time that I used it, I coughed, sneezed and wheezed.  This lasted for hours afterward, too, since it emitted and kicked up so much dust- not to mention having to empty the canister and suffering some more. I reside in a nonsmoking home with only my husband, no children, no pets, and have as clean a house as you'll ever see! So I can't blame it on my home environment. 
Desperate for a heavy-duty vacuum that I could use without becoming sick, I decided to give the Miele (rhymes with "Shiela") a whirl. Did I want to spend a king's ransom for a vacuum cleaner? NO!!!!! In my case, however, I thought of it more as a medical necessity. I also bargained with a local dealer who took one hundred dollars off of Miele's retail price.  The dealers have to ADVERTISE retail price, but you do not have to PAY retail price.
Many other reviewers here and across the web have written about the pros and cons of owning a Miele. The biggest con is the price, and the pros are many. The FOUR vacuum cleaner repair persons with whom I spoke said two things for certain: 1.) Dysons are a piece of junk, and 2.) As a general rule, Mieles last for years and are worth the price. (Two of these repair people sold neither Miele nor Dyson).
The main idea that I would like for others to come away with after reading this review, is that I do not, under any circumstances, want anyone to go on believing that Dyson vacuum cleaners are good for allergies and asthma.  I was miserable using that $500+ paperweight.  The Miele on the other hand, is the first vacuum cleaner that I have used that does not have a terrible odor, and does not force me to vacuum with a tissue in one hand.  During its first use a week ago, I vacuumed 4 rooms (carpeted, tile and hardwood), under beds and furniture, across blinds, over door frames, baseboards, and so forth. I did not cough or sneeze even ONCE. THAT is nothing short of a miracle for me.  I also do not cough and sneeze for the next few hours AFTER vacuuming.  I have replicated this by vacuuming at least 4 times since then with my Miele, with the same amazing results.  ZERO dust particles escape from this sealed unit, as compared with the unsealed Dyson, Kenmore, etc. models, whose vacuums generally emit far more dust particles than they pick up.  I absolutely no longer react negatively to vacuuming.
The quality of the Miele is superb.  This canister is light, agile, and works like a dream.  I have the SEB217 head for my minimal carpeting.  In order to make this vacuum even more versatile, I purchased a long "Universal Brush" Miele #SUV 10), and I can 'dust' anything with it, including my baseboards- it's great!
If you can swing the cost, get the Miele...ESPECIALLY if you or your children have allergies or asthma.