ID: B000O161W6-RS3C6SPOKR4MW-A39IKPEJLRES7S
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-18-135mm-3-5-5-6G-Zoom-Nikkor
ReviewerID: A39IKPEJLRES7S
ReviewerName: Daniel Parilla
Date: December 20, 2007
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Very Good, with limitations
Content:
Just a short review since all of the good feature have been catalogued before. The picture quality is great. It is easy to use, makes a good bridge between point and shoot and "creative" photography, and it is an outstanding second field camera for big events. 
Now for the two points I feel everyone should be aware of that are not quite as good: 
ONLY COMPATIBLE WITH CPU LENSES! Although it will accept older Nikkor lenses, they WILL NOT AUTOFOCUS unless they are an S type with CPU contacts (AF-S or AF-I). Contrary to what customers have heard (and I get these questions frequently,) there is no firmware update that will fix this issue! The camera does not have a focusing motor to drive older style AF lenses; these lenses require a little pall on the camera to connect with a slot on the lens to move the focus elements. All lenses must have a silent wave motor or equivalent in order to focus with this camera. If you are looking for this camera to make the transition to digital while using older Nikon F mount lenses, I suggest you look elsewhere, the D-80, D-200, D-300 are the better choices. 
Summary: 
The double digit Nikons are great consumer D-SLR cameras, plenty of features and a reasonable price (D40x $585). Be aware of the limitations, and I am sure you will be happy with them. Nikon's triple digit cameras are outstanding pro-sumer cameras that give you professional level features in a frame (and a price) suitable for serious hobbyists and experienced users (D-300 at $1,799). Finally there are the single Digit cameras (D-2, D-3). These are the pro cameras with such features as dual memory card slots, multiple shutter release buttons, heavy duty battery configurations and both a frame and pricetag matched to professional photographers (D-2, $5,500). 
I have shot with all three models, and prefer the D-300 overall, but still love my D70 even though it is for sale to finance the D-300.