ID: B000VDQ38E-R3KEK1VC9NZHQI-A1SD001BOZ30D7
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1SD001BOZ30D7
ReviewerName: D. Armstrong "Cat Lady"
Date: October 20, 2009
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 1.0
Title: Experienced House cleaner says Don't Bother!
Content:
I have five cats and a dog.  I have a three-story house that is mostly plush carpet, Berber-type carpet in the basement and a ceramic tiled kitchen area.  I vacuum everyday.  I purchased the Bissell Pet Hair Eraser in July 09 for $149 from the Base Exchange while my Dyson Animal was getting the brush replaced because I wore it down vacuuming everyday.  What a huge mistake purchasing the Bissell Pet Hair Eraser was and let me tell you the ways I hate this vacuum and regret the purchase.
1.  The cord is in the back and down low on the unit.  This causes you to step on it and vacuum over it.  I have damaged it in two places.  My remedy is I ran the cord through the loop on the handle.  
2.  Hose is too short.  I need to reach under a king size bed (where my cats hang out) to vacuum.  The hose plus extension attachments cannot reach causing the unit to topple over on me.  There is not a wide floor head attachment for the hose to vacuum bear floors (around toilet and other semi-small spaces) the units floor brush keeps spinning and will occasionally spew debris in the air.  The hose attachment loops around into the unit to deposit dirt when vacuuming carpet.  You need to firmly put it in place or it pops off.  The Pet Turbobrush attachment would not send dirt and debris into the dirt cup.  It built up in the head and did not perform well on stairs. The Pet Contour Tool wasn't that impressive.  You have to press and rake hard across furniture and still long hair gets tangled in it.  
3.  The unit is louder than my Dyson.  The dirt cup is small and debris gets backed up in the upper part requiring you to reach up and pull it out.  The Pet Hair Lifter made no difference either up or down when vacuuming.  It did not pick up litter off of bare floors very well.  The first two months it cleaned carpets well.  It really is not very well self-propelled and it does take more effort to maneuver than the Dyson.  As of Oct 09 it is losing suction and the brush has difficulty over the Berber-type carpet even on the highest setting.  There is now a burning smell coming from the unit.  
I do not recommend purchasing this product.  I'm glad I have my Dyson back.  It is worth the $500.