ID: B000EP4TWQ-RLU3K7A2NL7SO-A1U5NWJOYH2QQH
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Silver-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A1U5NWJOYH2QQH
ReviewerName: Frederick P. Barnes "fredpb"
Date: October 21, 2005
Helpful: 19 of 20
Rating: 5.0
Title: I have lotsa toys, but the Ipod Nano is awesome!
Content:
I have a lot of audio equipment.  My main system headphone amp is worth $1000 by itself.  I love music.  Mainly classical.
I am also a geek, and love portable audio. I have had cassettes, and have minidisc.  I have had hard drive players by Creative, Rio, Archos, eDigital, iRiver, going back to the Creative Jukebox 1.
I wanted an iPod Mini, but they are discontinued.  So I got a iPod Nano 2gb.  Had it for about a week.  IT IS AWESOME.  The best portable player I  have tried.  Interface, sound, size, screen.  Just great!  The software (iTunes) is ok.  It is not perfect, but does the job well.  Creative has a good software package, and the iRiver makes you use Windows Media Player or the like...it comes with no software.
The iPod comes with two nice bonus features. 
1) Podcasts.  Sound files from sources all over the net, that can be added and updated to your iPod automatically when you connect it to PC.
2) [...].  Audible Manager does not work with the iPod, but you CAN play files you legally download with Audible Manager to your computer!
There is also online music purchasing from iTunes website.  I don't use that though.  Too bad iPod can't work with Rhapsody, my current online service.
Proponents of other brands say the fact that the iPod batteries cannot be user changed is bbbbbaaaaddddd.  I thought that.  Now I don't mind.  Apples battery service is only $60 (check their website for details).  A battery for other brands is usually $50.
Little difference.
Not many accessories out for Nano yet.  I ordered a case for it online from eBay (no, don't get your ipod from eBay).
Downsides:
I wish I had gotten the 4gb!
You can only charge Nano with USB cable connected to your PC (cable supplied).  An optional charger from Apple is $30!
There are cheaper substitutes out there, but buyer beware!
The Nano scratches easily.  But I got it to listen to music with, not visually adore, though I do....
I gave the iPod Nano five stars.  It's worth it.
Too me, it's only main competitor is Creative Zen Micro.  I have one of these too.  Yeah, Geek.  But the Zen will not play protected files [...] (I think it will with the update of firmware, but I did not like this update).
If you decide to purchase a player, make sure you have a good return policy.
One comment..the itunes software is strange in some functions.  Like it does not use the word "delete".  To delete something, you use "Clear".  Weird.
As usual, provided help files leave a bit to be desired.