ID: B000NO5PZI-R10E8C9CNXWKLM-A2DQOVHE52UQ94
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-Momentum-Cyclonic-Upright-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A2DQOVHE52UQ94
ReviewerName: Nomadic Pixel
Date: June 4, 2008
Helpful: 16 of 16
Rating: 4.0
Title: The Best Vacuum Yet!
Content:
We were fed up with our top-of-the-line Kenmore vacuum, which we bought in the hopes that a more expensive machine would also be more effective than the previous Hoovers and Eurekas that we suffered with. But that expensive monster was a nightmare from day one till the very end...and we decided that it might be better for us to buy a cheaper machine and replace it every year. We got recommendations from friends of ours to try out Bissell vacuum, and reviews on Amazon pointed us to this line of vacuums. We couldn't wait for it to be shipped to us, so we went to Target and found it on sale for $89. Yay!
Came home, took it out of the box, and discovered that the hose had to be attached, which was a bit of a challenge to the men of our household ;) But after that, it was good to go. And boy, does it ever go!!! It sucks stuff right out of the carpet, tends to take out a good bit of lint too, and the dust cup got filled very fast the first couple times we vacuumed our house. I think we had to empty the cup a few times the first time we vacuumed! So, that was very rewarding.
It's been a few months now that we've had this machine, and it's still behaving itself. The only thing that seems a bit weak is the hose, which got twisted out of shape at the head end, but we can live with that. It still has the same suction power, and doesn't cause us any undue grief, and if it does, I believe the hose is easy to replace. 
The dust cup is nice...I was wary of going the bag-less route, but the convenience of this surprised me pleasantly. Empty the cup into a grocery bag once the dust has settled (we do it before we run it again, rather than after a vacuum session) so that dust does not rise up in a soft cloud. There is an indicator light which tells you when the machine is not at its optimum suctioning power, and this is beyond useful! Wash your filter when the indicator goes to red, and you'll be back to normal. 
The 35 (or 40?) foot cord is very nice. Make sure you do not get it trapped underneath the brush, as the cord's outer coating will get worn off; you will be an unhappy person when that happens! (A bit of electrical tape will take care of it when it happens, though.)
I took off one star because of the somewhat weakly-constructed hose, and the fact that the brushes can't be turned off when using the attachments or doing bare floors.
Happy vacuuming!