ID: B000VJX7DW-R2Q4Z6T12A872C-AY1GFEPIEPYEU
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D300-12-3MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: AY1GFEPIEPYEU
ReviewerName: Walter O. Koenig "Amoxtli"
Date: November 26, 2007
Helpful: 74 of 84
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent Camera, Lots of features, great image quality
Content:
I have used this camera for only a few days and am very satisfied and enthusiastic. Nikon has made an excellent product. I won't bother writing about the various technical features. Those are already amply detailed in the camera description. Here are a few first impressions that I have of the camera:
You can change ISO very quickly and it goes up to 3200. Very useful.
There are many playback features such as zooming in close on an image and navigating around in it. A big improvement over previous models. 
The new playback screen is much bigger and has an awesome resolution. You can live preview on it. Very cool!
There are several focus options, including the 51 point focus. 
You can press help on any menu item and it will explain what that item is clearly and easy to read.
The menu is easy to navigate and easy to use. The 421 page User's Manual may seem daunting at first, but it's very clearly written and has several ways to cross-reference what you are looking for
The camera is comfortable to hold, has a solid feel and all of the controls are within easy reach. Shooting mode, ISO and most other controls can be easily changed without going into the menu.
All the above are features, but the most important benefit is excellent and sharp images.
If you would like to see some samples, email me and I will send you a link so you can check them out. I am very satisfied and I am glad I bought this camera. I may add to this review as I use this camera more. I just wanted to write a review to express how satisfied I am.
Note November 29: After 300 shots the battery indicator is on half empty. If correct, then battery life much shorter than D50. Unfortunately only a EN-EL3e battery will work. This means I have to buy another battery.