ID: B000050I7X-R37KG62DJCAQQW-A1FG7UI419TYKI
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Kero-World-KW-24G-Portable-Convection
ReviewerID: A1FG7UI419TYKI
ReviewerName: Kurt A. Greiner
Date: April 6, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Does a good job, requires some maintenance
Content:
I have had one of these heaters for four years now, and use it in my 1000 square foot workshop (concrete floor and high ceilings make this space a challenge to heat).  It does put out a considerable amount of heat, though it tends to be localized as there is no fan.  Nearby the unit it gets quite toasty, and will raise the temperature of my shop 15 to 20 degrees after about an hour and a half.  
The secret to good performance is to use nice clean kerosene, and be sure it is not contaminated with water.  It performs best on clear kerosene, but this is the most expensive fuel.  I have had decent luck using red dyed kerosene (road tax exempt).  I by it at a local bulk petroleum jobber and as of yesterday (April 5, 2010) I paid about 16.50, with tax, for 5 gallons in California.  It burns clean, but I find I need to clean the wick a couple of times each season.  I get a bit longer than 12 hours per tank, which is great. Make sure you change the batteries at the start of winter, and any time the glow of the starter seems to dim.  I go through one or two sets of C batteries each season.
Cleaning the wick takes about 10 minutes - there are two screws and a knob to remove, and then the top slides off reveling the base.  I use a small putty scraper to flick off the carbonized portion of the wick.  If you find the unit sputtering or hard to light that is an indicator that this service is needed.
I have replaced the wick once over the past four years.   Do this outside, and wear rubber gloves as the kerosene has a strong odor.  It is not too hard, but you do need to take care that it is aligned correctly so that it cranks all the way up for lighting, and more importantly all the way down to ensure it extinguishes the flame.  It did take me two tries to get this right, and I am reasonably handy, though a more careful reading of the instructions would have helped.
Overall I am very happy with the product and am considering purchasing a second one for my shop to reduce the ramp up time.  The maintenance required keeps it from being a 5 star review, but the trade off is lower operating costs when compared to electricity or especially propane.