ID: B000FFRYYK-R2Q7GGULUG7CPU-A2SO0I1IKTF76J
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: BTX-B-ThermoFresh-10-Cup-Thermal-Carafe-Coffee
ReviewerID: A2SO0I1IKTF76J
ReviewerName: Matt "Matt"
Date: March 20, 2007
Helpful: 82 of 85
Rating: 5.0
Title: A good cup of coffee...
Content:
We purchased this to replace an aging Mr. Coffee. The Mr. Coffee was programmable, which was nice when I remembered, but when I didn't it could take nearly 20 minutes to brew a pot. That is a long wait in the morning. We considered this or the Braun programmable, which appeared to be rated well, but I couldn't determine how long it took to brew. I knew I wanted speed.
I got speed. This thing is fast. By two and a half minutes its down to waiting on the last drips to come out of the basket. The coffee's flavor is excellent, but a little weaker than I like. I upped the amount of coffee to the recommended tbsp per cup (which would yield very bitter coffee on other machines I've had) and its back to where I like it. A darker roasted coffee would also add a lot of strength. I enjoy the fact that the coffee doesn't sit on a burner and cook too. The carafe has done a great job of keeping the coffee hot for hours at a time. I've had no real trouble about the carafe dripping.. this may be because the Mr. Coffee trained me to go slower to avoid such drips.
Another point: I checked and the Bunn filters ARE taller than my others. The coffee grinds do get pretty high on the filter, so I can imagine that getting off-brand filters would get you grinds in your coffee. Just buy the Bunn filters at your local megamart. They're not that expensive. Also, decaf and/or finely ground coffee does sometimes overflow the filter anyway. The manual mentions this and offers a free replacement sprayhead to improve this. We don't drink a huge amount of decaf, so I don't think we'll ask for it.
I've tried some premium coffees again, and am happy to report that they are worth it now. A good coffeemaker does make a difference in the quality of the coffee.
Pros: Very fast. Coffee tastes very good. No burning the coffee on the carafe warmer. Keeps the coffee hot. Did I mention fast?
Cons: Coffee seems a tad weak. Very finely ground coffee, and decaf, sometimes overflow the filter a bit. I wish it had a button to press to brew instead of closing the top.. I foresee a big mess if company is up before me (It starts pouring coffee out the basket as soon as you close the lid, you HAVE to have the carafe in place).
Would I have been happy with the Braun? Probably. But I bet its not as fast, and after years of inadequate coffeemakers, I'm happy to have one this quick, and making coffee this good.