ID: B000CS7UEY-R3UTS10LX9IOYG-AFQ7P1RFG7XY
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Zen-Vision-Video-Player
ReviewerID: AFQ7P1RFG7XY
ReviewerName: G. Perrier
Date: January 16, 2007
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Zen for a Dummy!!
Content:
I had my eye on this Zen Vision:M Player for many months. I always wanted some kind of mp3 portable player instead of using my discman LOL and I thought this one by Creative labs was amazing. I finally purchased it as a XMas present for myself and right away had trouble. It wasn't working with my computer, and I didn't know how to turn it off. I believe the instructins that comes with it is pathetic. With all the functions and capibilites they should have sent out a 100 page manual.
I had to go onto the Creative Support website to and ask all of my questions. I also hate the fact that no store has Creative accessories. Circuit City, Target and BestBuy only have iPod displays which makes it more expensive for me because everything I want for it is an online order with a huge shipping charge. I guess that's how they get you. 
I also hate the fact that I don't understand fully how to get movies on my player. Everyone keeps talking about this Amazon Unbox but why would I pay $20 for a movie that's going on my player only? Why didn't they include software that uses our own personal DVDs and can transfer them onto the player. 
With all that said, I gave this a rating of 4 because it really is cool once you figure it all out. I will have to purchase a different pair of headphones though because I keep getting ear infections from the pair they sent with the player. The color on the player is amazing. Viewing my photos are very nice. I also love the FM option for an alternative. The videos I do have on the player play extremely well. I just wish this player had a "stop" button. The bass could be a lot better. And I wish I knew how to set up the calendar. I also had to purchase an Invisible sheild because there is no way this is getting scratched! The size is cool and easy on the fingers. I purchased the docking station but now I'm wondering why I did so. Someone says it charges it faster but I dont care about that considering I charge it over night anyways. I will probably return the docking station.
I recommend this player to everyone. Forget iPod. I just wish they had a "Creative Zen book for Dummies" LOL.