ID: B0000YTYGM-R3RXVZG2FXSK54-A1FGPYJJV9THGG
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DTC-975BKN-Programmable-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1FGPYJJV9THGG
ReviewerName: Bad John
Date: February 21, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 3.0
Title: Poor design of the Pause Brewing and all plastic construction
Content:
I've had this coffee maker for over two years, I experienced three overflows and will list the reasons for each.
First time, the basket was not fully clicked into place. My mother was staying over and make herself some coffee, hey! eighty years old, what can you say?
Second time, when more than one person is in the house and using the coffee-maker its going to happen that the first person makes a pot, dumps the grounds and cleans the basket, only drinks half the pot. The second person then fills the water reservoir adds ground coffee and starts another pot, since the carafe is half full then half the new coffee overflows.
Third time, the plastic hinge developed a crack, the basket can be snapped into place but slips off-center and doesn't fill the carafe, overflow results.
First, design. I took five minutes and designed (on paper) a hinge that required you to lift the basket up slightly so that the basket would drop down into place and firmly in correct position or would fall back to the right and be obviously not positioned over the carafe. Cuisinart could and, in my opinion, should have done that.
Second, there is no way short of lifting or opening the carafe to determine if it is empty. Even a half cup of coffee will result in a half cup of spill. The weight of the empty carafe is known, to place a sensor on the pad to detect even a grams difference would add about ten dollars to the final price of the unit. Ever cleaned up hot coffee and grounds from kitchen counter, drawers and floor? I'd pay it.
Third, how long should a hundred dollar coffee-maker last? 1 year, 2 years, five? I don't know where the crack came from, the unit has never been dropped. The all plastic construction doesn't help and as reported by other users, all the lettering is being lost from normal cleaning with soap and water. (don't buy the black unit, its impossible to see dirt or deposits on or inside the unit) It should be noted that the unit is made in China. 
A few more points, the comments about overfilling the reservoir puzzles me. The reservoir on my unit has a hole drilled in the back, overfilling results in clean water being spilled out the back of the unit. Doesn't everyone's DTC-975 have that hole? 
The pause brew valve at the bottom of the grounds basket, this is the cause of all the overflowing issues. We don't use or need the feature, so we just removed the valve and the coffee-maker works fine without it. Now if the unit is not perfectly positioned over the carafe there is no overflow. It also allows us to continue to use the Cuisinart with the cracked hinge. 
As suggested by others, I heartily endorse the the regular cleaning with vinegar and water. 
My three star rating is mainly due to the poor durability and workmanship, A improved design would have resulted in a slightly higher price which is different kettle of fish, so I did not lower my rating on those issues.
If I were rating the thermal carafe by itself, it would get five stars.