ID: B000MMK23Q-R3DXCACBRVO5QW-A3JD7MYF1HS9U3
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: EdenPURE-Model-Quartz-Infrared-Heater
ReviewerID: A3JD7MYF1HS9U3
ReviewerName: Cavero Enterprises -. Sosa "Tyger"
Date: December 24, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Three, going for 4th
Content:
I live in SC. I bought one EdenPure about 5 years ago. I used it for a year and LOVED it. 
I bought another one for the other end of the house. Never has given me a bit of trouble. I love it, too.  
I recommended it to a friend in Connecticut who bought a third one. He has used it for 3 years now and is very pleased with it. It keeps him toasty warm, even in that frigid climate. 
All of these heaters were purchased from BioTech Research and I have not had any unpleasant experiences with their customer service. There were no problems receiving my orders in a timely manner. I don't remember many details about the transactions, but that only tells me everything went smoothly because I am one that will remember if a customer service rep gives me so much as a bad attitude.
I used to use a space heater that would dry out the air so badly I would have to keep a pot of water on top of it to be able to breathe at night. I would also keep a wet wash cloth by my bed to put over my mouth when I would wake up coughing. I've never had a problem since we bought the first EdenPure. 
They are quiet enough and our electric bill is almost affordable now that the EdenPures have reduced our heating costs. 
I cannot find ONE thing to complain about. I would highly recommend them. As a matter of fact, we are adding an office to the end of the house and guess how we will be heating it ... U guessed it ... yet another EdenPure.  
P.S. I forgot to mention how badly I have abused the first heater we bought from them. It doesn't seem to have a filter that can be cleaned with a vacuum or washed. I haven't cleaned it since I have had it (5 years) and it still keeps on working just fine.  I am going to have to talk to someone up there and find out how to get a replacement for it before I actually do burn it up I guess.