ID: B000IBNXX2-R9ZGBPQPGXX0S-A20GE6YQ52FYM4
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Portable-Media-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A20GE6YQ52FYM4
ReviewerName: Susanabanana
Date: September 10, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: great for Audiobooks!
Content:
I have had my Zen V plus for about a year, and I use primarily for audio books.  My public library is associated with NetLibrary and Overdrive, so I can download books for free.  My Zen is my companion for housework, the gym, car rides, shopping, etc. I use it on average two to three hours a day.
The Zune and Ipods cannot play audio books from these sources because they cannot manage the DRM licenses.   The Zen V Plus can play these files, and even allows the user to set up to 10 bookmarks.  Another nice feature is that if you shut off the machine, it holds your place in the book.  I have used several other players, and the only other system that worked as well for audio books was my Rio Audio Carbon (how I mourned the death of that machine. Two years later and it can still bring a tear to my eye...)
I have had the zen  freeze up on me a few times, usually when I am doing a lot of fast forwarding.  Luckily, being female, I usually have an earring on hand, and that works perfect for the reset button hole. My machine takes only a few seconds  to rebuild the library - which seem like less time than others are claiming.  This is perhaps because I have less files - audio books as  opposed to lots of mp3 files.  For me, this has never been an issue.
I love the zen even more now that I bought the creative audio charger.  I really hated charging with the USB port - the only method available when you purchase the Zen V plus.  It takes too long and it is inconvenient.   I tried other usb chargers, and the only one that works is the one from Creative - it has some type of proprietary technology.  But with this charger, my zen  charges in just over an hour. The battery life is variable, depending on how much time the little video screen it lit up.  The more you hit the buttons, advance songs, play with the menus, every time you light that screen for 10 seconds, you cut about 15 minutes of pure audio battery time. I have read review that the battery life is over 20 hours - but these reviews must have just turned it on and left it, never using the video screen.  In real life I get about seven hours - I recharge every couple of days.