ID: B000H0IKA0-RDLN4NYJDHVW9-A2SX7EFO0QNXDP
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-shuffle-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A2SX7EFO0QNXDP
ReviewerName: Neil Morrison
Date: October 11, 2007
Helpful: 6 of 11
Rating: 1.0
Title: Only works if YOU are good enough for Apple
Content:
I am deployed to Afghanistan so as it is you have to have anything electronic you want mailed to family in the US and mailed to you, no one seems to be willing to send any electronics to an APO, so I guess the thought of major companies is that if we did not bring it we should not have it.  So I went through the hoops and waited 2 weeks instead of the one it would have taken had they direct mailed.  Then once I get it, they do not come with the software to load any music on it, you have to download it.  Well, I can't do this at work since it is a Government internet system, so I try it on my own, but the connection is not stable enough and I cannot download the entire 50 Mb file to use the IPOD.  So I call tech support, the tier one guy was nice enough, but he could not help because Apple does not feel it is necessary to make disks anymore, if you want to use their product you had best have an internet connection that is good enough to download their software.  So I talk to the tier two guy who told me that it was my problem and I should have downloaded ITunes before I ordered the IPOD to make sure that I had it, he made it clear that he had no intention of helping me and that he would under no circumstances be willing to transfer me to his supervisor.  When I asked his name so that I could complain, he hung up on me, really nice of him to do when I spent half an hour of my evening calling from Afghanistan.  So finally I called the Public Relations people and explained the problem, they got in touch with someone who would make me a disk and mail it to me so that I could finally use the IPOD, but here I am a month or more since I ordered the IPOD and it is still a useless piece of metal and plastic because the disk is still not here after 2 weeks if they ever actually sent it.  Other than supposedly sending me the software, that is required to make the product work except it is not included, Apple has done nothing except send an email to say thank you for working with them.  Customer service and support obviously do not exist with Apple and if you are not up to their standards do not buy their products.