ID: B000AAWEJU-R2RX667QWGKNUB-AHW8TG1XC66B8
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-Carina-Canister-Vacuum-Cleaner
ReviewerID: AHW8TG1XC66B8
ReviewerName: Donald A. Baxter
Date: January 19, 2008
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Vacuum
Content:
It's cute (I find myself leaving it out--it's a nice piece of industrial design), it's light, and it's easy to use.  Oh yeah, it's got great suction.  The floor tool is very maneuverable and the turbo brush carpet tool is more than adequate for the fairly thick living room carpet in my home (this tool runs on the air sucked through vents in the tool--it really is a "turbo"--just as an exhaust driven fan runs the turbocharger in my VW Passat) and this tool is also very light an maneuverable.  If you have a lot of carpet and need the attachment to have driven wheels, you might want to by a Miele with a powered carpet attachment.
The exhaust air coming from this vacuum smells like fresh air even though this model does not have HEPA filtration.  As far as I can tell the filtration that it does have (and a new filter comes with a package of bags) is more than sufficient.
It's quiet enough that you might not think it's working until you run the floor tool over the road sand that seems to always get tracked in my house in the winter--the racket that makes is satisfying confirmation that it's working quite well.  I can talk on the phone and use this vacuum.
The vacuum itself weighs all of 11 lbs. and it is fairly small.  Quite easy to walk around with and carry while vacuuming places like stairs. An attachment to strap this small vacuum to your back might be convenient.
The only two downsides to the vacuum are. 1.) the curved plastic piece that connects the hose to the stainless steel telescopic tube (no need for two pieces--nice feature!) will become disconnected if you hold the plastic piece close to the end where it joins the hose--it's supposed to come apart, but it should probably be a bit more difficult; 2.) the dusting brush is tiny--perfect for small areas, but i'd like one a bit larger. I might spring for the mini turbo brush at some point.  I'd be happier with one larger dusting brush that seems to be unavailable.
It's almost $500, and that's a lot to pay for a vacuum without a powered attachment.   But it doesn't need that attachment and I suspect I'll have this machine running for at least 10 years if not more.  I'd buy it again.