ID: B0007Y79B2-R1S2HSIIJ73OVL-ARVD6Y9Z1E4D4
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Black-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: ARVD6Y9Z1E4D4
ReviewerName: G. Kline "art hunter"
Date: November 29, 2005
Helpful: 40 of 51
Rating: 2.0
Title: 4Gb iPod Nano is pricey, but may be worth it (read on)...
Content:
UPDATE:
I have ended up buying an iPod Nano afterall.  My first review was from my initial experience and what I learned from a few other owners.  But after getting a chance to use one for a full day, I came to realize that some of my earlier complaints about the Nano needed revisiting and so I decided it was time to buy it (note: the $50 extra for 2 more Gb is worth it!)
#1: Durability - overall, the unit is well made. The "click wheel" is smaller than the standard iPod, but still works as well. It is a very small device, so it is easy to drop it. I have heard it is fragile upon dropping onto a hard surface. Also, the shiny surfaces are scratch prone (both the glossy plastic front and the chrome back). So the best way to avoid these kinds of problems is to cloak the Nano in a casing of your choice (see below). Once you do that, you're good to go.
#2: Form factor - it really is "just right".  It's small enough to fit in your pocket and yet large enough to hold comfortably in your hand.  I'd actually prefer it to be slightly thicker and accommodate 8Gb!  But for what Apple did with this device design, I have to applaud them.  It is solid feeling, yet light enough to strap on your arm and not really notice it is there (great for the gym or running!).  The iPod Nano will display album art, but the screen is a bit on the small side... I made my own album images for my songs (300x300, so you see them well, easily found on the Internet by searching Google Images) and associated them with my music in iTunes.  When you load the songs onto your iPod, the images automatically go with them.
#3: Cost - Comparatively speaking, $249 for a 4Gb MP3 player is STEEP, considering what the unit delivers and the sparse included accessories.  When you go out and buy a protective case and other necessary items, like a USB POWER ADAPTER so you can charge the iPod when not connected to a computer (yep, can you believe they don't give you this?), a DOCK (they give you the CABLE only!), and upgraded headphones (if you find the earbuds annoying), the cost will add up to quite a hefty sum if you buy the accessories from Apple.  I've found good non-OEM accessory makers out there (check closely on auction websites), so you can definitely do better.
#4: Sound quality - Overall, it's very good (depending on your environment, sound file quality, and ear sensitivity).  Most MP3 players do not send relatively much power to the headphone jacks, so they give you cheap ones to mask this.  The default earbuds with the Nano are OK--certainly good enough for a workout session in a noisy gym.  But if you're an audiophile and require top grade sound all the time, you may be disappointed.  I recommend testing out the Nano in the Apple store with your own preferred earbuds/headphones to judge for yourself.  I bought a nice set of over-the-ear headphones that the Nano drives reasonably well.  I am considering getting a portable headphone amplifier for long trips, though.
#5: File management - you have to use iTunes to get songs onto your iPod.  That's ok--iTunes is a decent music management program.  However, it works seamlessly ONLY if you use Apple's proprietary AAC encoding.  This will take all of your MP3 files and convert them to AAC, then load them into the iTunes library.  The file size is a little smaller, but the sound quality is not consistently good.  To convert files back to MP3 format, you'll find a noticeable sound quality loss.  Personally, I REFUSE to lose music portability and so I'm sticking with MP3 format.  In order to do this, you have to sacrifice the iTunes synchronization feature.  I think this may also explain why when copying songs onto my iPod via playlists, I end up getting duplicate songs--the iPod does not seem to know how to link an incoming playlist to songs that may already be on the iPod.  Very annoying.  I find I have to periodically clear my Nano and completely reload.  But that's OK--even with the 4Gb Nano, it's not a very long time to reload it.
#6: Battery life - I have to say that this is the first device I've had that has a very even power meter display.  Most of the time battery powered devices (like cell phones) will indicate a full charge for a long time and then drop off quickly.  The Nano power meter diminishes very evenly.  In fact, when the meter hits the "red" zone, your iPod can go for another 3-4 hours.  I conducted my own power test--I fully loaded the Nano and let it play from a full charge.  At the end of 12 hours, it was done.  Ok, not the 14 hours that Apple claims, but close enough.  Keep in mind, this was undisturbed playing and at 3/4 volume level.  The backlight of the Nano takes up a lot of power, so I keep mine set to a 2 second shut off (the default is 10 seconds).
ACCESSORIES:  If you plan to use the Nano for working out, I recommend getting a case that will allow you to strap it to your arm.  I bought a silicone-gel kind of case for the nano that has openings in the back for a velcro strap.  Works great!  Definitely get a wall charger (so you can charge the Nano independently of your computer).  And if you want to use your iPod with a stereo system or to have it propped up nicely on your desk, get a docking station.  I have a friend that bought a car FM transmitter for the iPod so he can play it through his stereo--it works pretty well.
I really do like the Nano.  But I have to admit that I have a few grudges:  the tiny 1.5" screen (I think 2" should have been possible), the lack of a brightness control (the Nano becomes a flashlight in the dark it is so bright--unnecessary, as I'd rather save the power), tiny storage for what you get (an 8Gb chip should fit in this form factor), and lack of built-in features like FM receiver and direct memory card file transfers.  I bought my Nano primary for exercise, with the intention of getting a larger PMP (portable media player) for storing my complete collection of music as well as favorite photos.  It's important to set aside the Nano "coolness" factor and really look at this device for what it should deliver on FOR THE PRICE.   If your main purpose for getting an MP3 player is to hear music during workouts, and you don't need a large library of music with you when traveling, then the Nano may appeal to you.  However, if you are ok with the standard iPod size, I recommend going with a full size iPod or a Creative Labs device (Nomad Zen or Zen Vision).
TIP:  When you first get the Nano, utilize the protective film already on the front as a screen protector, by trimming it in between the screen and the click wheel (your case will protect the rest).  If you do it carefully, the film will remain nicely in place without air bubbles and will last a good long while.  Eventually, after the film acquires enough scratches, buy the screen protector film readily on the market!