ID: B000S5UY2G-ROC8PM67U1R5A-A3654LSNXTAC6Y
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-Wi-Fi-Portable-Media-Player
ReviewerID: A3654LSNXTAC6Y
ReviewerName: Justin D. Franklin "paper_tiger"
Date: October 13, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: It's nice.
Content:
I've owned my archos for about 5 months now and ithas lived up to what it was made for. Wifi works great, I enjoy having both the touch screen and the side buttons, video quality is outstanding. The main reason I bought the 605 was to listen to music, but getting the web browser/internet radio and tv plug-ins really improved the device. The sound quality is above par but not outstanding. It's much better with the proper equalizer settings (very nice touch) and good quality headphones. The versatility is great, you can have it be an MTP device when connecting to your computer, or just be read as an external hard drive. I like that it is linux-based but it isn't truly open source. I like that it plays flash games (somewhat slowly I might add) and that the Opera browser has nice widgets that work pretty well, but if it was open source then it would truly be a huge step up from the itouch. The stylus that comes with it is overall a good stylus but there's nowhere to put it. It is useful when surfing the web but I don't want to have to take it with me in the hopes that I'll get into a wifi hot spot. Since the device does have a touch screen, I was hoping that the interface would be a little more touchscreen friendly. It works well, but it could be a lot better by making the folders bigger and therefor easier to access via touchscreen. I haven't been able to experiment a lot with the browser (I just set up wifi in my home yesterday) but I can tell that my overall experience with the 605 will be enhanced. One of my favorite things at the moment about this device is the internet radio. It is well supported and has superb stations. I would recommend this product to anyone as an alternative to the itouch...but not for $400. I got mine at a really great price (around $180 I think) and it is well worth it but Amazon seems to have bumped up the price to $400, which isn't worth it (I don't think any mp3 player is worth $400 honestly). Overall, great product and highly recommended.