ID: B00008UI0R-ROXV5GRWI1NPW-A3IKUYROV4NP4V
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A3IKUYROV4NP4V
ReviewerName: A. Ovelman "happeeladee1010"
Date: February 23, 2007
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 4.0
Title: It's got pros. It's got cons. It's got SUCTION!
Content:
I spent several days researching every vacuum out there. This is what I was looking for: 
I wanted a vacuum that was light enough, easy to maneuver around my modest 1400 square foot home, that picked up the dirt and dog hair on my carpeted floors as well as my wood and tile floors, that would allow me to vacuum the stairs easily, would be easy to clean and maintain, and would not leave me feeling like I need a massage and a nap when I am done with all of that.
Here's what I got:
Despite the stated weight, the vacuum is not heavy at all. The vacuum is fairly easy to maneuver. What I found is that because the power nozzle propels forward during vacuuming, it does put strain on my arms and back pulling it back for each sweep. But, it is only significant enough to let me know I need to work out more. The vacuum works GREAT on the carpeted floors and my upholstered furniture, too. I don't even need to use the highest level of suction for any of these functions. 
I'm not crazy about how the vacuum worked on bare floors with the power head (in floor mode). However, I used the attachment that came with it that is designed for floors, and that worked pretty well. I think I prefer a broom though for my hard floors. I also couldn't dust with this vacuum without scratching my furniture. I tried, but it didn't even  remove any of the dust. 
With the handy power tool, vacuuming stairs is a snap, though I have to balance the canister against my leg as I go because of the size of the canister. I also need to switch off between the power tool and the crevice tool to get in the grooves of the steps. But it does a great job at getting all that dog fur that accumulates on the stairs!
Emptying and cleaning the canister and filter is a snap. I just ran it all under cool water. All the gook rinsed from the canister easily without making a mess. I set it on the counter to dry for a day, and then put it back in. Easy.
Overall, I am very impressed with this vacuum. I didn't need a massage or a nap when I was done. The only thing that is missing, in my opinion, is a place to put all the tools. There is only room for the two small standard tools, but there is nowhere to put the power tool, the tool that is designed for floors, or the rubber stoppers that come with it to protect the metal edges. I don't like carting a bunch of little things around with me while I vacuum. 
If you're looking for a versatile sturdy vacuum under $200 that performs as well as or better than more expensive models (it works better than the $800 Electrolux I had), this is the one to get!