ID: B00008UI0R-R36EX8E3ZP2Z0-ARVPEQ08MNU9
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: ARVPEQ08MNU9
ReviewerName: Config Man
Date: November 11, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good eclipses the bad
Content:
Bottom of Dirt Cup handle was broken when I received it. I looked in the box and found small pieces of plastic. Also, I could see a depression of the handle in the box and saw where the foam had deformed. I think the packaging works most of the time, but if you have a rough handler (I shipped ground) you could have the same problem. I noticed someone else had a review with same issue.
I called the local Hoover service location (Seattle) the next day and brought it in to show them. They gave me a semi-used Dirt Cup and Filter and are having a new cup shipped to me - all under warranty. To me that's good customer service!
I vacuumed the whole house with it because I was amazed how much "stuff" showed up in the Dirt Cup. I've never had a bagless before but this vacuum seems to do a much better job than our old Kenmore Progressive. It took up a little too much up from our wool carpet so we're going to keep the suction low and if need be use a different vacuum in that room.
The main 'power nozzle' agitator attachment doesn't hold a right angle when we pick it up so it's a little awkward to lift - just have to reach lower on the handle. Love the little 'crevice' agitator attachment for stairs. The roller moves using the air flow and has no motor.
Canister is a little bulkier than I had expected but the relatively high handle allows for easy pickup. Can't say that I'm as impressed on dirt floors, but it probably works as well as most. Attachment wand, hose etc. appear to have good connections. I mention this because we had two faulty connections (one covered in warranty) in our Kenmore wand which made us shy away from the newer model of the same make. My wife liked it better than her mothers $800 Miele.
Bottom-line: I think that for regularly carpeted house (e.g., no wool, burber) this could be an exellent vacuum and so far it's the best we've owned in 25 years.