ID: B000I3ZCWU-R2UHQPT04RRNC-A30ELDPP5TCQ8J
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-10-1MP-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A30ELDPP5TCQ8J
ReviewerName: Bernard Farrell
Date: July 26, 2007
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Digital camera that feels like a great film camera
Content:
I've used Canon cameras since the days of the original Canon AE-1, in the 1980s. More recently I've owned several Canon digital point and shoot cameras. This is the first Digital SLR that I've owned and it's just a wonderful camera.
As soon as I switch the camera on it's ready to go. I'm using lenses from my Canon EOS camera of a few years ago and they work wonderfully with the Digital Rebel XTi. The only difference is that the effective focal length is slightly larger, so a 35mm lens on the Digital Rebel is the same as a 50mm lens on a film camera. 
There are a LOT of controls on this camera that make it easy to change film speed (up to ISO 1600), focus points, and other settings. I spent the first week playing with the camera so I can get used to making changes quickly. I also bought the book Canon EOS Digital Rebel XTi/400D Digital Field Guide and read through it to learn more about the camera. This was MUCH better than just the user manual which came with the camera.
The camera is FAST at taking pictures, even when using the flash. The flash is high enough that I see a lot less red-eye. I've tried using lower resolution settings and find that even the Medium setting produces super sharp pictures with lots of detail.
The Digital Rebel goes into a low power mode when left on, and is ready to shoot as soon as you press the shutter release. I've left it on for more than 2 days and still find LOTS of power left in the battery. So far I've been able to leave the camera on and shoot over 300 pictures without running the battery down completely.
If you're going to use this camera to shoot in Raw mode, you'll need a BIG memory card. I bought a Kingston 2GB CompactFlash Memory Card with the camera, fast and fairly large capacity. When I'm using Raw mode, the camera takes a Large format JPG picture together with the Raw one. With a 2GB card you'll have enough room for about 100 pictures, versus over 550 with just Large mode alone. So you may want to consider the 4GB Kingston Compactflash Card.
Colors from the shots are really nice with great skin tones, even when using the flash. The Rebel has a lot of different photo modes, but I'm mostly sticking with P where it chooses both aperture and shutter speed. I can use the small wheel just behind the shutter release to easily change these for more speed or better depth of field.
I'm really glad I chose this camera, and I'm looking forward to many years of happy picture taking with it.