ID: B000FKGSIS-R35OQMWMYO44EC-AEYTP0M7AH7XB
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Holmes-HCH4954-U-Whisper-Ceramic-Heater
ReviewerID: AEYTP0M7AH7XB
ReviewerName: David J. Kricker "medivac"
Date: November 26, 2007
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Works well, but overly complicated
Content:
With so many choices for electric heaters, how to choose? Well, none of them can produce more heating power than can be obtained from the outlet they're plugged into, which is generally about 1500 watts. Given that, it pretty much comes down to heat requirements and quality. Is it needed to heat a room, or just a person? Does it matter whether it takes a while to produce heat, or is it needed right away? How long is the manufacturer willing to warranty the product?
The Holmes HCH4954 is a fan-forced mini-tower ceramic heater which will heat nearby objects and small rooms relatively quickly, As advertised, it is very quiet. This is the primary reason I bought it, as most other designs would have sufficed. It uses a single button to allow for choosing a constant low or high setting, or thermostatic control at either setting. The unit is warranted for 5 years, which is another reason I chose it.
While a single button would seem to make heat control a simple matter, it actually makes it more complicated. Depending on what choices are desired, it may take many presses of the button to get what you want. If you leave the unit plugged in, it remembers your last choice, which may or may not be what you want for the next run. 
It seems to have been lost on the designers (this applies equally to other brands) that a single dial control is all that's necessary for any electric heater. The unit would run at maximum power and cycle according to the setting chosen on the dial. Turning the dial all the way would cause the unit to stay on continuously. Perhaps the next generation of heaters will work this way.
It is for the reason above that I gave the unit four stars instead of five. Other than that, I'd recommend it for its quietness and five year warranty.