ID: B000M5GCFU-R2L9WQUSI4GBSK-A1C2B12EX6K3I5
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Digital-Heater-with-Timer-Blue
ReviewerID: A1C2B12EX6K3I5
ReviewerName: Dan Bender
Date: September 28, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 1.0
Title: BUYER BEWARE
Content:
I purchased two of these heaters through Amazon.  I wanted a bathroom heater with a timer to limit energy use if we forgot to turn it off.
Pro's---  The unit is attractive
Con's---
  Out of the box I was unimpressed before even plugging it in.  The recess for carrying the heater is poorly designed.  When lifted the heater tilts due to poor balance and slips off your fingers.
The control panel display is LED and tilted at an angle of around 45 degrees. Due to the nature of LED displays you have to view the display straight on to see it undistorted.  This means that when standing most people would have to be at least 4 feet away.  The only practical way to set it up is to get on the floor with it.
The unit is programmed by push buttons and requires approximately 15 to 20 button pushes to turn it on, set to 70 degrees, and set the timer to 1 hour.  This is worsened because it does not remember your previous settings.  When turned on it defaults to 75 degrees, and 10 hours delay.
I HAVE SAVED THE WORST FOR LAST.  The thermostat is influenced far more by the unit temperature than by the room temperature.  Lets say the room temperature is 60 degrees and the thermostat is set for 70 degrees.  At turn on you can see the room temperature display increase very rapidly up to beyond 70 degrees (within a couple minutes) then the heat element and fan shut off. At this point the room temperature has not changed at all, but the heater thinks it has increased to 70 degrees.  I believe this is a design flaw because both heaters do the same thing.
I gave up on these heaters before testing the other features.  I only hope that the seller will take them back, this is pending.
Conclusion---
This product is essentially worthless unless you want to use it as a continuous heater, without thermostat, and manually shut it off when through.  For this you can get superior, and less expensive heaters from Wal-Mart.