ID: B000OK0YWK-R30YEBP3DNLTYV-A33GCAZ6VDAN60
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Red
ReviewerID: A33GCAZ6VDAN60
ReviewerName: AA
Date: January 1, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 3.0
Title: Great hardware, miserable software!
Content:
The 30GB Zune is a great product which I was able to find at a great price (about $100 in brown--shop around).  The Zune itself is well-designed and easy to use.  I can't quite understand the choice to release it in brown, but it saved me $40 over the black model, so no complaints.  The hardware itself is simple and comparable to an iPod at a lower price.
There is also a world of accessories you can buy for the Zune, both made by Microsoft and other companies.  Microsoft has some nice, if overpriced, packages for cabling, car travel, etc.  Altec Lansing has a nice speaker system you can find for about $50 where you can drop the Zune in and play from it, using a remote control.  They have belt clips, long-life battery packs, FM transmitters, etc. The Zune comes fairly bare-bones, not even with an AC charger, so expect to pay extra for some of these accessories.  For all the variety, they can get pretty pricey.  You can check out the Zune boards to stay abreast of sales on Zunes and Zune accessories, and read about the latest products, etc.: http://www.zuneboards.com/
The main problem with the Zune, however, is not the cost of the accessories; it's the software.  It's pretty easy to use once your songs are set up, and syncing between your Zune and computer couldn't be easier (plug in a cable, start the software, and it does it for you).  However, getting the software to label your songs as you'd like and keep them that way is a nightmare. The software will not readily permit you to change the artist on an album once the album has already been burned.  It makes changing artist names on tracks and sometimes even genres or song titles horribly difficult, sometimes accepting the changes, sometimes not.  It will even make seemingly random changes, after you've spent a lot of time changing things to be just the way you'd like them to be.  
If you're purchasing a 30GB Zune, chances are that you, like me, have a lot of music to put on there.  And you'd probably like to be able to easily organize and locate it.  The software will be a potentially insurmountable obstacle here.  I really like my Zune and I'm pretty savvy with computers, but I've been pounding my head against my computer screen with this software!  I will probably have to soon bite the bullet and call tech support.  I couldn't find any solutions online that helped, though I did see a LOT of posts from people who were frustrated with the software taking so much customization and being so difficult.
In truth, 80% of your music will be organized quickly and correctly with Zune's software, but the 20% remaining may be drive you mad...or toward the nearest iPod.