ID: B000VDQ38E-R2G7R1BRD7MFMZ-A11ZIIBEDBCG9H
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A11ZIIBEDBCG9H
ReviewerName: Daniel F. DeVilder "dust_and_breath"
Date: June 2, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: good vacuum, fair price
Content:
This is my first bagless vacuum, and replaces a former CR best buy, the Hoover Windtunnel, whose rotating brush had developed a kink in its rotation and was burning out the rubber belts.
First, what seems good about this vacuum: not having a bag is nice.  I had been a bit concerned about "how messy" it is to dump the plastic container.  I had bought into the idea that a bag was less "dirty".  I am not so sure that is true.  The theory is that with most of the dust inside a bag, the dirt doesn't get on you.  However, not only does dust "poof out" of the bag, while changing it, your fingers and hands get dirt on them just by pulling off the dirty one and replacing the clean one.  Dust is all over inside the housing.  not a big deal, but IMO, advantage to bagless, especially when you factor in the cost and hassle of buying bags.
Next I liked the varied attachments. I must clarify something about what constitutes the pet hair remover.  If you are like me, you have noticed many brands and models advertising a mini rotator brush for removing pet hair off of furniture, using it as an attachment on the hose.  However the Bissell pet hair eraser refers to a flip down flat bar that extends the full width of the front of the vacuum "head." I really have yet to determine how good this is.  Others swear by it.  For me, we have a Cairn Terrier, who doesn't seem to shed a lot.  I honestly couldn't say how great that flip down "eraser" is.  I DO know that with it flipped down, the vacuum cannot clean as well close to objects, as the "eraser" extends an inch or two beyond the opening of the suction area.  In general, the Bissell does not perform as well as the Windtunnel, which created a wind vortex that actually would suck up dirt and debris right up the the edges of walls.
Beyond the "eraser" flip down attachement, which no other vacuums have, this Bissell also has 4 or 5 attachments: a 2 piece wand that fits inside itself and attaches to the back; a standard brush; a mini rotating head for stairs or easy chair vacuuming (it fits on the hose and goes places your main vacuum "head" cannot), and a rubber fronted attachment that is useful for vacuuming contoured areas like armrests on easy chairs.  The attachments all work fine.  I like the mini rotator which is not unique to Bissel, but is a first to me.  That particular piece is hard to remove from its nesting place.  It snaps in there fine, but is hard to pull out.  The rubber fronted piece is somewhat hidden at the top of the "bagless container area, and below the handle.  A bit awkward to figure out how to "nest" it there, but overall, not bad.
Now, my main disappointment was with the sucking power.  Vacuums are few things that you really, really, want to "suck."  i had read how this one was so strong it sucked up carpets, etc.  Ahhh, mine is not like that.  It is adequate, and I think does a fine job--i even marveled at how nicely it cleaned.  But it seems to have less sucking power than the old Windtunnel--my little tyke doesn't get nearly as bug-eyed when i chase him with the hose (okay, DCFS . . . come get me!)  On bagless vacuums it is important to make sure your container is tightly positioned, which mine is.  If not, you will get even less suction.  Suction is also impaired by overly full containers.  But my experience is that even properly positioned and with relatively empty containers, the suction is not as strong.  Just holding your hand over the end of the hose gave that subjective impression.  But it has been good enough that I haven't returned it.  
The fact that you see dirt going in the clear container makes you think it is picking up a lot.  That may or may not be the case.  but what IS the case is that you will empty your container more than you will replace bags--you just don't have to keep buying new ones.
Overall, it is a good vacuum,and I did not pay a price that broke the bank.  The attachments give me a variety of ways to clean.  that is helpful.  Bagless is more convenient, and only the question of sucking power must be considered.  It does not clean as well close to edges without breaking out the hose attachments.  It is much quieter than the old windtunnel.  There are more expensive models that may work better on bare floors (Bissel total floors model), or may make it possible to turn of the rotating brush (which is nice, but not necessary), but over all, I am satisfied with a vacuum priced at a (pet)hair over $100.  Happy hunting.