ID: B000063XHI-R1PB1AKU5KQ4V8-A2VRDAUYHE30Q8
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Capresso-440-05-Electronic-Coffeemaker-Thermal
ReviewerID: A2VRDAUYHE30Q8
ReviewerName: L. Claassen
Date: September 13, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Nice coffeemaker, don't pay too much.
Content:
I've used department store drip coffee makers forever, but got tired of the boiled coffee flavor after 15 minutes on the hot plate. I learned to pour the freshly brewed coffee into a thermal carafe and this definitely helped retain the flavor, but not the temperature. So I began preheating the carafe but started getting tired of all the steps just for a daily pot of coffee. When my latest Mr. Coffee started showing it's age, I found the Capresso MT500 on sale online and, after reading lots of reviews, decided to pull the trigger. I've been using it for two weeks now and I can tell you that it does indeed make a good pot of coffee, but is not a big leap over what I was making before. I use freshly roasted, flash-frozen coffee from a local roaster so I cannot speak to the quality of using Folgers or Maxwell House.
THE PROS: Coffee goes straight into the thermal carafe cleanly and effortlessly (I'm mystified by the reviewers who wound up with a mess because they didn't put the lid on correctly - you screw the lid on all the way, period) and it retains the heat quite well for the 90 minutes it takes me to drink my 5 cups. If you use good quality coffee you'll get good results. The programming is easy and I have ready made coffee when I wake up every morning. There is a "3-5 cups" button to push if you're making less than a full pot, which slows down the brewing process a little for better flavor and body.
THE CONS: The water reservoir level indicator is on the side of the unit where it is difficult to see. The unit overall is overpriced. I got a "refurbished" unit (looks brand new to me) for $99.99 and this seems to me to be on the high side the way it is. It's just a drip coffeemaker with a thermal carafe, folks. Also, you are led to believe that the carbon filter is a necessity, but I use filtered water anyway from my Brita pitcher, so I'm not buying the $8 filters every couple of months.
BOTTOM LINE: Attractive unit, makes a good, smooth cup of coffee a little better than some cheaper ones. Use filtered water, high quality beans and don't pay over about $100. We'll see if it lasts a few years.