ID: B00061LSAY-REO1Z74J0YMF0-A1592H35GT7M4X
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-ist-DS-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A1592H35GT7M4X
ReviewerName: J. Bailey "Jay"
Date: May 17, 2005
Helpful: 49 of 49
Rating: 5.0
Title: Pentax *ist DS vs Canon vs Nikon
Content:
I've had this camera about 4 months now, and I'm more satisfied than ever that I chose this over the Canon (20D) and Nikon (D70) that I tried for several days each.
First I didn't even consider the Canon Rebel (other than picking it up for a few moments at the store).  The Rebel is cheaply built plastic, and feels like toy.  I'm sure it's more durable than it feels, but if I had bought the Rebel, I would have regretted it every time I picked it up.  Plus, why would you buy one when the Pentax is available for about the same price, and the Pentax feels much more like a professional camera should.
I tried the Canon 20D and Nikon D70 for several days each before deciding to buy the Pentax.  First on the D20, there is no doubt that it is a better camera than the Pentax or the Nikon in several ways.  First SPEED.  The D20 is by far the fastest camera of the 3, and will take something over 5 frames per second I believe.  It focused very fast, and had very little noise, even at high ISOs.  However it is at least $600 more than the the Pentax or the Nikon, and I decided the extra fps speed was not worth it for what I need a camera for.  The Pentax is no slouch at 2.4 fps, and I've found that to be as fast as I need.
Compared to the Nikon D70, both cameras take good pictures (the should, they both use the same 6.1mp Sony sensor), but I like several things about the Pentax better.  1st, the Pentax is a MUCH smaller camera, and I really didn't like the behemoth size of the Nikon.  If you've never held the Nikon, be sure to go to a store and try it first.  You won't believe how huge it is.  2nd, The LCD screen on the Pentax is bigger and brighter.  3rd the viewfinder on the Pentax is a pentaprism, which gives you a much larger and brighter image than the pentamirror (cheaper) on the Nikon.  4th, I like the menu system much better on the Pentax (much more intuitive). And finally, I like the fact that the Pentax uses SD memory as opposed to compact flash memory,  and it uses AA batteries (rechargeable) as opposed to a proprietary battery.
Try the Pentax *ist DS, you will LOVE this camera.