ID: B000EPHP4U-R102QQSVVIOE65-A2CA779BMA8QFM
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Black-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A2CA779BMA8QFM
ReviewerName: Sou Shiko
Date: February 26, 2007
Helpful: 
Rating: 2.0
Title: A critical opinion
Content:
I used to own the Rio MP3 player by Sonic until it broke. After reading all the positive reviews on this page and all the hype, I expected a similar and even better designed user interface and trouble free connection to PC. I was quite disappointed:
1. My PC (XP with no SP2) freezes after I plugged the USB in. It freezes for several seconds whenever I try to view IPOD drive using explorer.
After I managed to copy some mp3 files to the IPOD drive and unplugging the IPOD, I cannot see or play any! It was not until then I realized I had to download and install the 37MB iTune software to be able to transfer mp3 files to ipod.
2. The Apple click touch pad wheel drives me nuts. When you are playing a mp3 file, and go back to the menu, I don't think I am the only one who gets frustrated when mistakenly clicks on the &lt;&lt; or >> key while using the trouch scroll wheel. What a disasterous user-interface design to put two totally un-related functions on one button, and requiring user to fine control his finger pressure!
3. It's also inconvenient that you cannot change volume when browsing other files. It would have been much better if there were some volume control buttons on the side like Rio. 
4. Again the touch wheel volume control is totally a disaster and you will find yourself constantly having to switch on the key lock on the top to prevent the volume fluctuates when you want to hold it in hand without having to worry about not touching the wheel, or when you want to put it into your pocket. 
I will give it one star for the much larger capacity than my old Rio and another star for the adorable shape and color.
P.S.
The "newly designed" earbuds initially hung well to my ears but they soon got greasy and started to fall off. I found that I need to clean them using detergent so the thin rubber ring regain traction. I never had to do this for any other earbuds I owned before.
P.S.
I am getting used to the click wheel and now can better control my finger pressure. The click wheel comes in handy when you use the search function, but is not better than normal buttons for other uses in my opinion. 
Despite the above shortcomings, ipod nano 2nd gen is still the only mp3 player with metal case and flash drive, which makes it light, quiet and feel good in your hands. The green one which I have is very beautiful with the green goes so well with the white color cord. Nobody really needs tens of GB for only mp3s, so it is a better choice than the aluminum case creative zen with 20GB hard drive.