ID: B000WFZSBE-R3C4YFUQJ7VZGG-A2PZN4RX3H3YF4
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A2PZN4RX3H3YF4
ReviewerName: tukewl4u720 "Obsessed with Russian Literature...
Date: December 11, 2008
Helpful: 20 of 20
Rating: 4.0
Title: Yes, I'm an Apple Fangirl; and yes, I like the Zune
Content:
I have an ipod classic, but after ruining multiple classics jogging with them, I decided to get a flash-drive based player, and thought "it's now or never" to try out the Microsoft Zune.
First Impressions: The packing is very nice; it's been said before, but it's very true. It made me realize how plain the iPod box is. This isn't a really important thing, but it's a nice touch.
The Zune itself is somehow a lot sleeker in person than in pictures; I don't know why, it just is. It's not as thin as my mom's 3rd generation iPod Nano, but it's not super thick either, and the controls kind of blend into the machine, at least with the black.
Sort of important: The Games were not already in the machine! I certainly didn't buy the zune for its games (which pale in comparison to the ipod's) but this had me pissed off until I figured it out. You have to update the zune, even if its new, to add the games to it.
Okay, ease of use: I've been using the trial for the zune pass, and converting the music using TuneBite (so that I can keep it even when my trial is done), and since I'm not paying for anything, it's a good deal for the next week. :)
I decided to not read the manual and try to figure out the controls on my own (to simulate the normal user of a new product), and it took me a little bit, being used to the ipod clickwheel, to realize that you scroll up and down, and not round and round. I miss the click wheel, but since apple patented that, it's not Microsoft's fault and theirs is a decent alternative.
The Zune 3.0 Software is gorgeous, much better looking than itunes, but I've gotta say: Personally, I'm all about playlists; I like to get ocd about them; and I just don't like the way the Zune software has you create them.
I didn't think I would appreciate or even really use the radio function, since I haven't been into radio since I was fifteen and got my first ipod, but the ability to add things to your cart actually got me listening to local stations again. Plus, it reminded me that my favorite npr "podcasts" are actually streaming 24/7 on the airwaves, lol.
The battery life seems about what my mom's ipod nano is; not great, not bad. An interesting note is that the zune doesn't need to be "ejected" from the computer; it can just be unplugged without harming it at all.
I didn't use the earbuds that came with the Zune, since I have my own higher-end pair, but they look and feel a lot like the apple ipod earbuds that come with that product.
Look, the thing is, product-wise, an mp3 is an mp3 is an mp3. If you're looking to play games on your player (and I understand that urge), get an ipod, but if there's any chance you'll use the radio function, try out the Zune. If you don't mind buying the "newest and latest" once or twice a year, get the ipod; if you don't want to have to bother with that, get the Zune, since unlike the ipod, the Zune's new features are always available, even for older models. 
All in all, I don't feel nearly as culturally irrelevant holding my Zune in public as I thought I would, and the interface doesn't look cheap or "second tear" at all.
It's a good investment, and I'm glad I made it. It's one less ipod classic I have to replace.