ID: B000HGIWN4-R1QMQIJXH7X1UX-A2VWE5SGNDS8HW
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-135mm-Zoom-Nikkor
ReviewerID: A2VWE5SGNDS8HW
ReviewerName: tachi1 "tachi1"
Date: March 11, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: My favorite camera ever.
Content:
My first digital camera was the original Canon Rebel. When I needed to make larger prints, I assumed that I would get the newer Canon Rebel. That is, until I saw it and handled it and found it so small, so hard to grip firmly, so ridiculous-looking when you use a long lens. 
But there, alongside it, was the Nikon D-80. Since I hadn't felt sure enough about the Rebel to invest in lenses, flashes, or other brand-specific accessories, I figured I could afford to jump ship. So I got my first Nikon.
The D-80 is said to be comfortable for people with big hands and fat fingers. I have short fingers, long nails, and fairly small hands. Yet, when I hold this camera (in either portrait or landscape orientation) I feel I've got a good steady grip, regardless of which lens I have on.
The camera has DX format, which means that it has a multiplier of 1.5 when you purchase a lens. This means that, if you buy a lens labeled 50mm, it acts like a 75mm lens. If you actually want 50mm, you need something between 33mm & 34mm. This mental arithmetic is important, not because you arbitrarily insist on a particular number. It is because this changes the size you use would traditionally select depending on your intended subject (landscape? closeup? portrait?) You have to remember that the aperture specs listed on the lens aren't what you've got. Wide-angle lenses become less wide; telephoto lenses become longer (your 70-200 mm is suddenly 105mm to 300mm). This is true of the D-80 and almost all other prosumer cameras, so it's not a point specifically against it, it just takes adjusting.
It is a camera that can do all your thinking, just like a point-and-shoot, if you put it on auto mode. Or it will allow you to make your own decisions in fully manual. I usually use it either on Program Mode (which is an adjustable semi-auto) or Aperture Priority Mode. There are several other modes available, the typical macro, shutter priority, etc. The camera can be trusted to choose the right exposure in a surprisingly high percentage of the time. And, if you shoot RAW, this only increases your percentage.
The menu and settings are varied and logically arranged. The controls are, for the most part, easy to reach and remember. The only exception is the AE-L/AF-L button, which is awkwardly-placed and requires changing your grip.
The focusing system is fast and responsive, as is the shutter response.
There is a wide selection of lenses and accessories to support the expansion of the basic camera. I have felt confident enough to commit to continue using Nikon equipment and have invested in a variety of lenses as well as flash and other accessories.  I've made a conscious decision to not purchase DX-only lenses because, should I ever be able to get a full-frame Nikon, I won't get full benefit from it. An FX lens can be used on a full-frame camera at full size, (a 50mm lens = 50mm) and the entire sensor is used. If you get a DX lens, and use it in a full-frame camera (which you can do), you lose a wide swath of the perimeter of your sensor and your subject area is greatly reduced, actually canceling out your benefit from full frame.
For the time being, I'm delighted with my D-80, I haven't come across a requirement that it can't meet. If I ever need to make larger prints (than approx. 24"x36") I'll get whatever Nikon full-frame camera with more megapixels is on the market at that time and pass on (or share) my investment in lenses with that other camera. But I think that my D-80 will always remain my favorite and I will always think of it as the camera , didn't teach me, but allowed me to really learn and enjoy photography.