ID: B000IHN8AO-R1WPB35N3ZC6QG-A3CNY143FBA95S
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-10-2MP-Digital-Camera-Reduction
ReviewerID: A3CNY143FBA95S
ReviewerName: oilwells
Date: March 1, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: No cheap plastic here
Content:
I spent a long time web surfing reviews on all sub-$1,000 DSLR's before buying the K10D. I tried out the Canon Rebel, Nikon D40 and Olympus E510 at a local store but they all felt "cheap" and "plasticky" especially compared to the point and click digitals I'd previously used. So it was with some trepidation that I ordered a K10D, sight-unseen. 
I need not have worried, the camera is all that users claim it to be. It is solid, extremely well engineered, all flaps, switches, dials etc move easily and securely. The first thing you notice is the weight, this is no feather-weight, slip-it-in-your-pocket camera. But the weight is reassuring, gives the camera great balance and feel. 
What about specifics? All the switches and dials are where you'd want them to be. The absence of a scene-dial gave Pentax room for more useful switches/dials. The priority switch lets you move effortlessly between shutter/aperature/ISO priorities and all their combinations. There's a switch to save images as RAW instead of JPEG. Easy access switch to flip between auto and manual focus. Info LCD panel on top lets you see aperture, speed, shot quality etc without resorting to the main LCD screen. Bright easy-to-use viewfinder. Software menu settings are predictable, you don't need to spend hours with this camera's manual - which is just as well because one of few issues you might have with the K10D is the manual. It's essentially a technical directory of the K10D's capabilities, in the Sony style. Anyone who's had to fight their way through a Sony manual knows what I'm talking about. But as I said, the manual is not something you need to constantly refer to. 
Using the K10D is a breeze, but it's a long way from point-and-click, I had to re-learn a lot of old optical SLR habits. The delay on automatic focus is minimal but soon seems like an eternity when you have an alternative - switch auto focus off, focus manually and wait for your Kodak moment. Perfect. The continuous shooting mode is a wonder, hit the shutter button and it keeps on taking shots until your SD card gets filled up. And they all look good. As other reviewers have pointed out, the out-of-the-box images are a little soft and color is a little "flat' but it only takes a couple of menu clicks to change those factory settings - sharpen up a notch and up the saturation level and you'll have whatever keeps you happy. 
The K10D is clearly head and shoulders above the competitors in build quality, And I'm already taking photos every bit as good as friends with Nikon's and Canon's. And one of the most important features is something I hope I never have to be concerned about - dust-reduction. No artifacts on my images, it works. 
I've got nothing but good things to say about this camera. I recommend it highly.