ID: B00081RWTI-R2XNR1HKUSP1RT-A2WIYNQB5Y0V3Y
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-600BCW-Automatic-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A2WIYNQB5Y0V3Y
ReviewerName: Independent
Date: December 10, 2006
Helpful: 16 of 16
Rating: 4.0
Title: Wow, so many poor reviews for a great machine...
Content:
I've used this machine for 2 years and have LOVED every (ok, sans the cleanup) minute of it. For people complaining of it overflowing out the top, the only way that could possibly happen is if you forget to put the lid on the caraffe while you're brewing a pot. The machine has a nice "stop dripping" feature if you take the caraffe off the base while its still brewing. The removable top of the caraffe must be on the caraffe in order to allow the coffee to drip from the filter to the caraffe. But if you don't have the top piece of the caraffe on while brewing, then yes, the coffee cannot drip down into the caraffe itself and the coffee has nowhere to go except overflow in the filter reservoir. 
This is not a flaw of the machine, but ignorance of the user. You MUST make sure all the pieces are in place while brewing a cup (duh!). I have NEVER had a pot overflow unless I accidentally forgot to put the top of the caraffe back in place after rinsing it out. 
Second, the complaints that steam causes a "coffee sludge" in the grinding bay.....yeah, so what? by the time that happens your ground coffee is already settled in the filter making a great pot of coffee!? You have to clean out the grinding bay after each pot anyway, so what is the big deal?
The only reason I gave it 4 instead of 5 stars is due to a few minor annoyances. First, cleanup is a bit of a pain, but to me its the price you pay for having an outstanding cup of joe. It takes me about 2-3 minutes to rinse out the grinding bay, filter reservoir, rinse out the caraffe, and wipe down the parts. Easy enough though; run them under some warm/hot water in the sink and scrub out with a scrub brush, and its done. And if you really want to save time, you can leave the parts lay out to dry overnight, and you won't have to dry anything.
My second gripe (and I'm really reaching here) is that the coffee pours out the top of the caraffe at a steep angle, so when I get to the bottom of the pot, I have to take the caraffe lid off and literally almost turn the caraffe upside down to get all the coffee out. Not a huge deal, and I'm sure that this design helps to keep the coffee hot longer, but it is a bit of an annoyance.
Lastly, I just wish it held more beans. I can only make 6 cups with whole beans. And that tiny little plastic measuring spoon that comes with the unit, throw that thing away unless you want super weak folger's style coffee. I found that to get that nice bold starbucks flavor, you need to mix one 1/8 cup of whole beans to every 5 ounces of water(FYI--5 ounces is one "coffee" cup, not the traditional 8 oz). Follow these guidelines with your favorite beans for an incredible cup of coffee.
People complaining about residue: I never have any noticeable residue (try using a french press and you'll know what residue really is). And if it bothers you that bad, you can use a paper filter! In the manual Cuisinart even says that by using the gold mesh filter by itself, it may produce a more robust, flavorful brew, although the wire mesh may allow very very slight residue through the mesh (it is a wire mesh after all)at the bottom of the caraffe, but I've never noticed it at all. 
Lastly, whomever complained that the coffee doesn't stay hot for X number of hours after making a pot...well, what do you expect? its a thermal caraffe, it doesn't have a heating pad underneath (that burns the coffee after 20 or so minutes). I usually pour my coffee into a mug and drink it right away anyway. And it DOES stay hot for at least an hour or two. If you need your coffee blazing hot all day, then no, this probably isn't the coffee maker for you. But good luck finding any machine that will do that.