ID: B000HZ9CCA-RY54AKFAT5OW6-AFJOLRS6D2FVQ
Category: MP3Players
Product: SanDisk-Sansa-e280-Player-Black
ReviewerID: AFJOLRS6D2FVQ
ReviewerName: L.L.
Date: December 8, 2007
Helpful: 1 of 3
Rating: 1.0
Title: Bought this player in February, no longer working in November
Content:
I purchased this item largely based on the good experience I had with an older Sandisk model (non-Sansa) which was stolen, and also the terrific reviews it has received here on Amazon. This is one time I've been steered wrong. Please note that many of the reviewers give their opinion after only a short time of owning this product. Well, I purchased this product at the end of February this year (2007) and it functioned - with various frustrations - until the end of November of this year.
My first frustration with this product was that it came with the Rhapsody player, in which I had no interest, and which I could not remove from the player even after my "trial period" ended. Much of the advice I found online for taking Rhapsody off (largely based on earlier models) did not work for this player. Despite my attempts to format the player, Rhapsody remained programmed onto the player, taking up about a gigabyte of space.
As another reviewer here noted, this unit does take a very long time to boot up. Of course, I have a friend who has a 30GB IPOD, and it takes about a second for that player to boot up, so I will leave it up to you to decide whether that is really a matter of the storage capacity. Additionally, when I connected the player to my computer, it did not show up as another drive, but as another item which I could not format or manipulate as easily. 
I found the battery life to be rather acceptable, the sound quality was decent, although the FM tuner was quite weak. The design of the actual unit is quite durable, however, the screen is prone to scratches. It was fairly decent to use with Windows Media Player, but I found it difficult to organize the music in an order that I chose - it tended to load in a sort of alphabetical order (same as the old player, but with more grief).
In the past few weeks I stopped being able to sync new songs to the player. I was able to empty it, as several of the tracks were being skipped for some reason. But I was not able to write on it again, and it now freezes every time I try to connect the machine. 
My old Sandisk was very easy to use and worked well for over a year until it was stolen. I paid about $200 for this product only 8 months ago, thinking I would get an even better product from the same manufacturer. I now feel as though I have wasted my money. I cannot in honesty recommend this product.