ID: B000FTLSR0-R38FIM61NCJI29-A3OZTXYROUNKUU
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-Digital-Reduction-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A3OZTXYROUNKUU
ReviewerName: Ladyhawker
Date: July 13, 2007
Helpful: 29 of 29
Rating: 5.0
Title: Exellent for the price
Content:
I was on a very tight budget and needed a new camera ASAP, since my old fixed lens camera had a lens that became "unfixed".  I had a 35mm Pentax SLR years ago and loved it.  After looking around, specifically at the Nikon D40 and the Canon Rebel, I decided to go with another Pentax this time due to it's affordablity and the online reviews that I had read.  I have been very pleased, but there are limitations to this camera.
First things I like:  
I really love the Shake Reduction feature.  Neither Nikon or Canon had this.  I was skeptical that it would make much of difference, but I have found that it does help the blur when you are pushing the shutter speed to a setting a little slower than you could normally get away with without a tripod.  The Shake Reduction does add weight to the camera, but that's not necessarily a bad thing.  I like the extra weight, I think it feels more substantial in my hand and when mounted on a tripod, it feels more steady.  
I also like that it takes AA batteries.  It is nice to be able to stop into any gas station and pick up new batteries if I get into a bind, plus rechargable AAs are cheap and widely available for purchase.  Other things that I like, the menus in the camera are easy to maneuver once you get oriented and the screen on the back is nice and big.  
I REALLY love that the camera can be turned on instantly and there is no delay when a take a photo.  On my fixed lens camera, it took a couple seconds to power up and due to a delay between when I pushed the shutter and when the camera actually would get around to capturing the image, I had to try and anticipate how early to push the shutter button to get the photo I was going for.  This was a source of endless frustration when photographing objects in motion, especially my children.  However, I realize that this is a benefit of pretty much any DSLR and is not an advantage that is unique to the Pentax K100D.
Another nice feature is the 2 second delay.  I've never had a camera with this setting before.  When using this, the mirror drops out of the way as soon as you push the shutter button, but it doesn't actually take the photo until 2 seconds later.  This lets any vibrations inside the camera due to moving parts settle down before the photo is actually taken.  This has come in handy when taking shots that are especially vibration sensitive, for example photos we take through our telescope.  
It can be as easy or as complicated to use as you want it to be.  I have fun playing with all the the manual settings, but in the automatic modes, it is easy enough that my 9 and 10 year old kids can use it too. Admittedly, I had to give them a quick training session so they could understand how the autofocus works, but they got the hang of it really fast with minimal practice.   The "Kids" setting is where I leave it when I turn it off, making it ready and waiting for the quick grab and click photos of my kids doing their everyday stuff.  
Things I don't like:
I wish it had an ISO setting below 200.  A lower setting would help reduce noise when making bigger enlargements.
I don't usually like the color I get from the auto white balance mode, particularly when I am shooting inside.  I have noticed this problem to be worse when I am in a large auditorium under those big square industrial lights that give a yellowish hue.  This color problem can be fixed by using the manual white balance, an easy procedure, but sometimes I forget to do this until it's too late.  This is a little quirk that I am still getting used to.  This is my first DSLR, and I am a very amateur photographer in training, so maybe this is to be expected with any camera -- I really have no idea.
A few words on megapixels:
6.1 is fairly low on the scale of available megapixels on new cameras today, but after doing some reading on the subject, I couldn't see spending a lot of money chasing megapixels.  6.1 is big enough for me to do a 16 x 20 enlargement, the largest size I have ever needed, and that is only needed on rare occasions.  It is also big enough to let me do a fairly tight crop and print a nice 5x7 or 8x10 if I feel the need.  
Summary:
OK, so yes there are better cameras out there, but you can spend thousands upon thousands of dollars on photographic equipment and still recognize that there is something better out there than what you have.  I gave this camera 5 stars because for the price, I just don't think it gets any better than this.  I love it.