ID: B0002V2KW8-R14WUQ4LE8DCHZ-A71RAEJ3JK2RN
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Aloha-1-2c500-2dWatt-Ceramic-Tower-Heater
ReviewerID: A71RAEJ3JK2RN
ReviewerName: J. Pawlowski
Date: October 22, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 1.0
Title: DOA
Content:
Heater arrived with no visible shipping damage to the outer, & inner box, or the heater. But the heater would not work. No power... nothing. Being a top repairman, I decided to fix it rather than go through the hassle & cost of shipping this big heavy thing back.
I discover on the bottom, the tip-over switch is stuck in. I pulled it out. Seemed fine now, but the heat still didn't work. After pushing the tip switch a few more times, it gets stuck in again. Tried turning & working the timer & still nothing. The instructions hardly say anything, not even how to work the timer.
I open it up. The connectors to the tip-over switch are loose & just easily slide off. Poor contact with that much current would cause arcing, overheating & cause a fire. I crimp the connectors so they fit snug, & firmly slid them back on the switch. I also notice that the swicth doesn't line up with the button sticking out the bottom. Pushing the button makes it sometimes scrape the side of the switch & get stuck there. It's not bent or broken... just don't line up. I bend it to make it line up properly.
Heater still don't work. After examining the wiring it don't make sense! They have both sides of the 120 volt line going directly across the timer on-off contacts... not going to the heating elements, & the timer motor coil as it should be! The contacts should have been in series with only one side of the power, not direct across the power.
I check the timer contacts (they're inside the timer & not visible) with an ohm meter. They're wide open & not functioning. Maybe they're on a magnetic relay. I apply power to the timer & timer moter, & the contacts still are not functioning no matter how I set the timer.
The timer is burnt out.
After someone incorrectly wired the timer, someone plugged in the heater before I got it & blew the timer out. With the power shorted by being placed directly across the timer on-off contacts, it would have made a pop, snap, smoked, or at least blew a breaker or fuse. 
Then they had the nerve to box it up, knowing it was blown out, & ship it to me.
I bypassed the timer, & it works... with no timer.
It's a shame about the poor manufacturer quality control & defects, because other than the problems mentioned, it appears to be well designed, & solidly built.
It has 2 overheat sensors in it. It has the encapsulated overheat sensors commonly found in coffee makers, & a reed type overheat sensor. Wiring & power switch are rugged heavy duty. It's also much bigger than expected... almost as large as an upright kerosene heater, & almost looks like one.
Although the ad made no claims that this was a radiant hearer, by the picture & design... coils of nichrome wire around a large heavy ceramic core, I hoped it would put out lots of radiant heat in 360 degrees when placed in the middle of a room. But it doesn't. The coils glow such a dim red, you can't even see them glowing unless you're in a dark room. 
This is primarily a convection heater with no real advantage over other convection heaters. Most of the heat goes straight up. There is no fan & it's completely silent. It's heating pattern & characteristics is similar to those of electric oil-filled radiators, except the radiators do a better job.
It does give of a little radiant heat in a 360 degree pattern too, but you have to be within a yard of the heater to barely notice it, & about a foot away from it to enjoy it... just like the oil-filled radiators.
It doesn't get dangerously hot, & objects near it don't get hot, so except for defects I found, & fixed, it shouldn't be a burn & fire hazard.
The cage & top of mine was coated with a black velvet like substance, & not silver like pictured... probably to prevent burns. I thought the velvet-like material might catch fire, but after taking a lighter to it, & trying to burn the substance I found it would not burn.
On the box, on the heater, & in the instructions it say's it's only 1,000 watts, not 1500 watts. My tests also confirm this. It's about 500 watts on the low setting.
This could be a fair heater with some quality control. It could be a great heater if they block the top & bottom center vent hole on the heat core to reduce convection & increase infrared. Infrared could further increase by having the coils burn a brighter red, orange, or yellow. This should have been designed as a infrared radiant heater... it came close, & even looks like one.