ID: B00005LVWR-RM2NX2TIWVFJD-
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Saeco-SuperAutomatic-Espresso-Cappuccino-Machine
ReviewerID: 
ReviewerName: 
Date: March 29, 2004
Helpful: 5 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: You *will* drink more coffee!!!  Great bang for the $!
Content:
After reading the other reviews here, I'm compelled to add my own.  I was quite surprised to see the rather low average rating for this machine.  I researched it quite well before purchasing and all the other sites I looked the reviews were extremely positive.  Sounds to me like only a few folks with bad experiences have posted to Amazon.  Take a look at the espresso maker sites and don't make a decision based solely on these reviews.I purchased my machine in October 2003.  It has worked perfectly.  I use it for at *least* one double cappuccino daily (more on the weekends). I turn it on in the morning, and in the time it takes me to feed the dog and 2 cats (&gt;2 minutes?)it's warmed up and ready to go.  I *love* the two boiler system that allows me to froth my milk and brew my espresso without a wait--I knew I would be impatient for my morning brew, so I opted to buy this model over the regular Vienna.I think the quality of espresso is quite good.  You have the ability to adjust both the courseness of the grind and the amount of coffee per cup.  Be warned, though, you may drink a lot of coffee experimenting for your optimal brew (you cannot let that liquid gold go to waste now, can you?).  The Saeco Vienna Deluxe produces espresso with *beautiful* crema.  Yummy!  The espresso (or cafe crema) it makes is suitable for drinking alone or as a milk-based beverageThe machine also produces a very good amount of steam to froth your milk.  It heats the milk quickly and it's easy to either steam or froth, depending on how deeply you keep the panarello attachment in the cup.The few things a buyer might consider:  (1) By-pass doser--I have, on a few occasions, wanted to be able to brew de-caf.  But, best as I can tell, a super-automatic with a by-pass doser is, at the *very minimum* $150 more, not really worth the extra bucks to me, but the potential user should definitely consider how important it is to him/her to have the ability to change coffee easily.  (2) No cup warmer--you get better crema from espresso from a warmed cup--not a big deal to me, I just use the hot water dispenser to fill the espresso cup to warm it if I'm having regular espresso.   I have been so happy with this unit that I'm buying another for my little vacation condo (morning coffe takes *way* too long with my very dependable old semi-automatic).If you enjoy futzing around with making espresso--the beans, the grind, the tamp, the temperature, the pressure, the pull--please don't bother with a super-auto, and then complain that you can &quot;construct&quot; a better brew to your taste...*Whatever*...of course you can.  But I have neither the time, nor the inclination to mess with that.  I wanted a reasonably priced, dependable espresso maker, with the best feature to dollar ratio I've found, add a machine with minimal fuss and clean-up--I've definitely gotten what I looked for with the Saeco Vienna Deluxe.