ID: B000GLHVZA-RTUYR7Q7MK6DD-A2IKM0OV7HMOGE
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Vornado-EH1-0034-06-Vortex-Full-Room-Electric
ReviewerID: A2IKM0OV7HMOGE
ReviewerName: gilly8 "gilly8"
Date: January 9, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent Space Heater; Made in U.S.; Ease of Use; Quiet
Content:
Vornado EH1-0034-06 AVH2 Vortex Full-Room Electric Heater: I recently bought this for my elderly ( 89 yrs old ) mother who is always cold, no matter how the rest of the house is....she has her own bedroom & small sitting room, and this heater seems to work very well for her in those combined spaces. I purposely bought the NON digital / remote version- about $50. cheaper than the digital one with a remote.  She would definitely have had problems with that. 
This version has a small simple dial on the top with the degree settings, a simple on -off power button, and low or high for heat and low or high for the fan buttons. I read, in someone else's post (I spent a month researching this) that 
1. the remote can interfere w/ some types of TV's that are set to remotes 
2. keep it on low fan, low heat, and use the dial only for temperature changing. (So it doesn't pull so much electricity.)
 
It is very light (6 lbs) so it can easily be moved. Has automatic turnoff if knocked over (she has a little dog) or if over heated (they all don't, and look for that safety feature if you buy something else!) The openings to the heater element are too thinly spaced for little kids' fingers (or pets) to get into it and be burned.
They are still made in the U.S. which is more and more important to me, as so many decent jobs continue to go overseas.
It is very quiet, very simple to use, and it was funny, reading all the diferent reviews (customers and "official" reviews) on Amazon and on multiple sites that sell space heaters that so many people kept coming back to "why didn't I just get a vornado?" or "GET A VORNADO"....a bit pricier than some, but is used heavily (this winter) 24/7, and so I think will be worth it, certainly as opposed to keeping the entire house as warm as she needs it to be. 
Double check, read the reviews of this and other space heaters on Amazon, and look at other space heater sites (google)....
From Amazon:
Product Features
Electric full-room heater with Vortex technology for even heat distribution 
Designed for a 16-by-16-foot room with an 8-foot ceiling; 2 heat settings 
Automatic climate control maintains set temperature; simple top-mounted controls 
Whisper-quiet operation; cool-touch housing; automatic shut-off; made in the USA 
Measures 11-3/4 by 9-1/2 by 11-7/8 inches; 1-year limited warranty 
So far we are very pleased with it.  I good buy, and sometimes paying more is worth it in the long run!
NOW>>>>I'm still looking for a small safe bathroom heater for my mother 's TINY bathroom w/ only 2 elec. sockets, any ideas????