ID: B000CS7UTY-R38WQEL8JZYE0M-A27Q0HKE99MNVO
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Zen-Vision-Video-Player
ReviewerID: A27Q0HKE99MNVO
ReviewerName: L. L. Lopez
Date: February 27, 2006
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 4.0
Title: Spiffy gadget
Content:
I was actually waiting for the pink one to be released, but I couldn't wait to get my hands on this, so I went with the black one. It didn't disappoint me at all. The video quality is really quite astounding. I was worried that movie subtitles would be hard to read, but that isn't the case at all. The sound quality is pretty good, though I don't know how everyone else rates it--some are satisfied, others seek something better. Since I'm not really looking for super crystal-clear audio--as long as it doesn't sound crackly or like it came from the bottom of a well, it's all fine by me.
I don't know why some people have issues with its thickness and like to compare it to the thinner iPod, but it's a nice and light little thing, in my opinion. I've tinkered with some Creative players before and always found the touchpad a bit fiddly, but it's really all right once you get used to it. 
I've also checked out the reviews and saw that some people have had issues with the software. Perhaps I'm just easily pleased, but I had no problems with transferring data or media to my player, and I can even transfer my stuff without installing the software. 
And yes, to corroborate earlier reviews, I have also had some problems with the earphones, since they don't stay in my ear very well. I'm not sure however if this problem applies to everyone. The shiny surface also tends to scratch easily (I kept my player in the included pouch and it still got some scratches), so it would be really cool if something like the iSkin were developed for the Zen Vision:M.
Overall, this is a pretty nice gadget, guaranteed to keep you entertained for a long time as well as turn some heads.
Edit: Ah, it seems I was lucky to have bought this player early on, since I got it with the included AC adapter. I've been using this player pretty consistently and I must say I STILL don't have major problems with it, apart from a fairly slow start-up, and for some reason, the clock sometimes resets to a different time, so I have to adjust it all over again. Also, it froze on me once, and that was around four months ago. And that's about all the wrong I've found with it after six months of use.