ID: B000V5P90K-R2C494UJ2XFOS2-A1C7VDNURC65UA
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-40D-10-1MP-Digital-Body
ReviewerID: A1C7VDNURC65UA
ReviewerName: K. Kaufmann "Hey now"
Date: December 7, 2007
Helpful: 4 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Incredible
Content:
I will be honest, I know absolutely nothing about photography!
I bought this as a gift to myself because it's something I have ALWAYS wanted to do and I get so many ideas for photos. I am also obsessed with Art Wolfe's photographs because they are diamonds!
I was really considering buying a Canon Rebel XTI and did a lot of research about it. But when I picked up the canon 40d it just felt right! It's sooo much money though so I financed it and I have never been happier! I go out every weekend and shoot photos instead of going shopping or laying around the house!
I have booked my first engagement photo session for $100 which will help me pay for the camera and I offered 100% refund if they didn't like it. 
So far it's been a trial and error with the camera. I have read through the canon book like 3 times in the past couple of weeks and it's really not that great unfortunately. It does explain how to get the different settings, but it doesn't explain what the settings do. I guess that is my fault because I really do not know what I am doing when it comes to photography but I wish there were more pictures in the book of "this is what happens when you do this setting". I'm a visual learner I guess. 
Luckily, I have been doing a lot of online research so it's slow coming. I wish I had a better sight because my lighting always seems off. Anyway! The main point of this is if you're thinking about the decision between this and the XTI, go with the 40d! My mom bought an XTI and has been wishing she had my camera because it just takes great pictures, the body is built strong, it's so much fun! there are so many settings and it's fabulous!
One other thing, I went to a park the first week I got it and there was a pro photographer who has been doing it for like 20 years. He seemed REALLY upset that I had this cam and he didn't. He had a 30d and He was like "You don't even know how to use that cam!" It was kind of embarassing but it still made me feel good that I have such a wonderful piece of equipment. He told me that I should have waited for the 60d to come out but he said it will take me like 10 years to outgrow my camera. If only I could afford some good lenses hehe!