ID: B0009VELUA-R2UF1H5A7HBCV-AVOWMSFFNBPRR
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-2000-Coffee-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: AVOWMSFFNBPRR
ReviewerName: RMP Stinger
Date: January 10, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Holy Cow what a great Coffee Maker
Content:
Well let's just start off by saying I agree with the naysayers that hate the way the water has to be poured into the machine.  However if you use the coffee tank to pour it in after a few times you become very good at not spilling it.  I am assuming that is why there is a spout on the side of the coffee tank.  At any rate we had an old coffee maker that did the job, but you could not leave the coffee in it for hours as you can with the Cuisinart.  The programming is so easy a Marine can do it.  It is chock full of features.  You can program it to make coffee before you get up, you can program it to heat the coffee in 30 min increments once made after which it turns itself off.  It has a small brew setting that makes 1-4 cups.  There is severe condensation from the steam inside the lid once the coffee is done brewing, but Cuisinart thought of that as well.  When you raise the lid it drains down the lid into a catch that funnels it to your spill catch on the front of the machine.  The water filter is a stroke of genius as it helps brew a perfect cup of coffee every time be sure to rinse it otherwise your first pot of coffee will have some charcoal dust in it..tee hee hee.  Well we have only had this thing since Christmas, and I read horror stories of the controls going out. (use the 3 year warranty...duh) As of yet it is still a perfect coffee maker that has yet to do anything other than its job.  We use only the gold filter, and it works perfect.  BUY IT...BUY IT NOW....you will love it!!! Oh yeah...buy it from Bed Bath and Beyond because it is $99 there and you can find 20% off coupons everywhere which makes your out of pocket $79.  Are there better coffee makers?  Without a doubt...are there better coffee makers under $80? NO WAY!  Oh yeah almost forgot...if you have tall insulated travel mugs like I do you will not be able to fill them under the spout....however if you are smarter than a box of rocks you can remove the spill catch, and move it to the side of the kitchen counter at which time you can put a 3ft travel mug underneath it if need be :), or you can remove the coffee tank and fill with the great little pour spout.  Until next time just remember cold coffee is yuck.