ID: B000BHIHKC-R180YID9R3RTI9-A2GV3NA87S126B
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-GT300-Home-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A2GV3NA87S126B
ReviewerName: E. L. Nawrocki
Date: May 6, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: A good machine for the price
Content:
I was very excited when I got this coffee maker because being able to make one or two cups of coffee at a time is a beautiful thing. I was also given some Java One pods with it and initially I was very disappointed because the coffee was weak. I learned that although all pods look basically the same they aren't and the non Home Cafe ones don't make a tight seal thus the watery coffee. I then bought the Folger's pods which you are supposed to use and they worked wonderfully. However, the flavor options are very limited. 
After looking around like crazy for a solution to this dilemma several people recommended using a regular coffee filter with regular ground coffee of your choosing. I tried it and it works! You have to use the two pod insert and trim the filter a bit but then you just scoop in the coffee (I did around a tablespoon), pack it down, fold a bit of filter over top so you don't make a mess, and hit the button. It'll make a nice 7 oz or 9 oz cup and depending on how much coffee you pack in you can adjust the strength (if you really fill it to the max you can probably do the 14 oz cup too). It's also nice to know you have this option available because if pods fall out of favor you'd be stuck with a big paper weight. The more finely ground coffees tend to work better.
I like the machine but it has some quirks which some people may not like. It's noisy when it's brewing. It also has a nasty habit of splashing coffee while brewing which makes a bit of a mess if you aren't using a tall mug. It's nice that you can use a tall mug though. As I mentioned before if you use pods other than the recommended ones you get junky watery coffee. The pods for the machine have limited flavor options and are a bit pricey but still cheaper than buying a cup at Starbucks or D&D. The coffee isn't incredibly hot so if you add milk or cream it might seem too cold to some people. I can't comment on creamy pods because I haven't tried one and I haven't had any problems as far as clean up. 
If you don't mind being a little flexible for your coffee maker this is a good machine. Like all things it has it's limits but for me the price was right. I use pods on work days when I'm in a hurry and when I'm home I can take the time to use the "filter method" and make whatever flavor or brand of coffee I want.