ID: B0000AFX53-R299FNU8D0PH80-A1ZPY91VE3IDN1
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Krups-468-42-Moka-8-Cup-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1ZPY91VE3IDN1
ReviewerName: J. Offenbach
Date: September 25, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Simple way to have tasty and less bitter steamed coffee
Content:
I adore the Krups Moka Brew.  It makes coffee with reduced bitterness, is easy to use, and with a few hints I've discovered, is a cinch to operate and clean.  The glass carafe is a snug fit in the coffeemaker and the button on top makes for a safety measure in lifting the latch which holds the carafe securelyin place.  I clean this regularly with a vinegar/water solution, and have no residue in the machine, no deterioration in coffee flavor, and no reduced operation.  It's expensive, but I really love this small appliance.  Now for my hints.  I cut circles of a Chemex folded filter and create I believe it's 8 filters from one thick Chemex filter.  I was going to buy basket filters and cut circles directly from those, but since I had the Chemex on hand, I tried those and they are nice and sturdy.  I then always wet the filter before adding the freshly ground coffee beans which are a little coarser than an espresso grind.  I then tap down the coffee a little, so it's not mounded in the center, place the lid on top, making sure the three sections fit together properly, slide it into the coffeemaker which has already received the fresh, cool filtered water, push the button on front, walk away, and return a few minutes later to a nice pot of hot and delicious coffee.  I immediately turn of the Moka Brew, flip the latch, remove the lid and rinse it.  I then remove the grounds holder and flip it directly into the compost bin.  Because the grounds are pretty dry, I have no mess at all, even if I miss and it falls on the kitchen floor.  I usually pour a cup to drink and the rest stays hot in a thermos.  Rinse the holder, rinse the pot, reassemble all parts, replace the carafe, close the latch, and off I go.  Oh yes, I always unplug it because the switch on front has accidentally been hit by something on the countertop and the machine has been turned on.  That's my only criticism of the Moka Brew.