ID: B000B6Q6C4-R1U4TC19RPYOTE-AK5NSZNVS23PX
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: WindChaser-PARHAL66-Halogen-Infrared-Parabolic
ReviewerID: AK5NSZNVS23PX
ReviewerName: East coast commenter
Date: March 25, 2008
Helpful: 24 of 24
Rating: 5.0
Title: Thoughtful, excellent product
Content:
This little device is my three season buddy, without which I could not survive.  It focuses heat on one unmoving object, namely, you, at your desk or workbench, and makes you tolerably comfortable even if the rest of the room is cold.  It will warm up the room eventually -- Today, for instance, it raised the temperature of a modest-sized high-ceilinged room 10 degrees in 6 hours.
There's a lot to like about it.  It puts out an equivalent or greater amount of heat at a much lower wattage than some other heaters of its type.  And, like the description says, the heat actually is more soothing.  It doesn't have a thermostat, so it doesn't keep turning off and on on you  --  if you should get too warm, then you simply turn it down or off.  If you want to go out and leave it unattended to warm up a room, there's a timer located on a separate knob that can be set for up to two hours.  The tip-over switch works extremely well -- the instant it's not on level ground it turns off.  You don't have to use the oscillation feature (I never use it) -- you turn the control knob clockwise from Off to run it without oscillation, and counterclockwise from Off to run it with oscillation.  It looks nice -- it doesn't look like it belongs in a shop and you can use it in a room with nice furniture.  If you use it without oscillation and without the timer it is completely silent.
Over time dust and debris will settle on to the reflective surface, and beyond a certain point the unit will overheat and shut off when run at high setting.  When that happens, remove the grill (unscrew 6 screws and gently pry the grill off with a flat head screwdriver) and clean the surface and it will be as good as new.
I love this thing, and hope that it will always be available.