ID: B000HJ4YMY-R1CNJGFG5BJ1BL-ASUFI96FGJS3C
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-55mm-Zoom-Nikkor
ReviewerID: ASUFI96FGJS3C
ReviewerName: H+E
Date: July 24, 2007
Helpful: 7 of 15
Rating: 4.0
Title: great but surprisingly, still not as good as film!
Content:
I had high expectations for this camera, going from a point-and-shoot Canon A70. I love this camera. It's worth the weight of carrying it around. I bought the 60mm macro for portrait and macro work. The capture is quick. Startup is fast. I love the bracketing feature. I love having the ability to change ISO.
Problems: compared to my film Canon Elan IIe, it is much heavier.
Autofocus, even though it is said to be problematic with the Canon Elan, is much better in the Canon. Frequently, the Nikon doens't focus even though it is a simple composition and there is plenty of light. It doesn't tell you why it won't focus. Frequently, the shutter won't release even though it looks focused. The Canon's focus follows your eye, whereas the Nikon's focus has to be manually located (much slower and impossible to do in action shots). Yes, I know it's like comparing apples to oranges, but it's what I've got.
The big problem is color representation. Despite the high pixels and technology, the colors aren't quite accurate. It is unnoticeable when shooting most landscapes and portraits, but macro flowers are problematic. Magenta is particularly notable which is represented more toward red, eliminating blues. When the field is saturated with color, it is particularly apparent. Greens tend toward blue, blues tend toward purple, reds tend toward orange. Where the color shifts slightly along a macro flower,  pixelation though not particularly visible, is apparent.
Edges aren't as sharp as with film, even with a macro lens. This is more apparent in a macro shot, even without being at the limits of the lens e.g. 6 inches away from an object, and this is still noticeable even on a portrait when I look for it. This suggests that it is a matter of digital capture rather than a lens problem. I've never had this problem with Nikon lenses before. 
I still love using this camera. I take it everywhere. I get much better shots than with the point-and-shoot (which I still take with me when travelling). I don't have to worry about how many photos I shoot, since I can delete them. It's better for the environment than film. It's just not as good as film for color representation and clarity.