ID: B000VJX7DW-R3W32C5ZNM5JRB-A2W73JAQ4AVCNJ
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D300-12-3MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A2W73JAQ4AVCNJ
ReviewerName: J.W. Hart
Date: May 15, 2008
Helpful: 19 of 20
Rating: 5.0
Title: Steep learning curve
Content:
I moved from a Nikon D70S to the D300 as my primary DSLR.
The D300 has marvelous control placement - of course there are still myriads of menus that one may make choices from, but the controls one most often needs are at fingertip access.
Learning curve on all of the possibilities of this machine are formidable; it's obviously not designed to be used in automatic or "scene" modes - there are no "scene" modes to be had.  (Although with custom menus one could create such if desired).  It is possible to charge the battery, attach a lens, and shoot right out of the box; however the real power in this machine lies in knowing all of the controls available and applying those controls to achieve the desired results.  
The physical feel of the machine is one of solidness; I've added the external battery grip (which allows the entire machine to function off of 8 AA batteries, as well as Nikon camera batteries) and the balance, for my hands, is as good as I've ever had in a camera.  (The external grip also bumps the frames per second from 6 to 8 when using AA's or some Nikon camera batteries.).
I've not weighed the machine with an 18-200 VR lens and external grip w/batteries, but it's a heavyweight and I would recommend a different strap than the Nikon supplied strap that comes with the camera body.
There is no "stealth mode" on this machine as there is on my Canon G-9 P&S; the shutter is loud, and putting it into rapid fire mode at 8 fps will get the attention of those around you.
The camera will be happiest with high speed compact flash cards - Extreme IV's, Ducati's, or other cards of that ilk.  Slow cards, especially if one is capturing NEF+jpg fine images will slow the write buffer down.  Plan on getting 4 gig or 8 gig cards - they fill up rather quickly.
I will let others comment on the images this camera can record - I've not had enough field experience yet to give an intelligent opinion.  However, I will say that the camera (again) is not designed for shooting on automatic, out of the box.  This machine requires input from the operator to function well.  Also this machine requires good lenses to maximize it's potential; the 18-200 VR Nikkor that works so well on my D70S seems softer on the D300.
Heavily recommended for:
Those who have Nikon cameras and have maxxed out the possibilities with those machines and are looking for greater challenges.  The D300 will support Nikkor lenses made since 1959 (although the ones made before 1977 may need a minor, inexpensive modification to fit on the D300).  Not all older lenses, of course, support auto-focus.
Those who have other camera brands but who have not yet invested large sums in glass or accessories.
Those who wish to become involved in photography at a serious level; this machine requires investment of both time and money.
Not recommended for:
Well heeled users who are looking for an expensive point-and-shoot or all-automatic machine.  
I am massively pleased with the D300 (good thing, considering the cost of one of the machines for a non-pro photographer!).  
My only real gripe is the cost of the machine - and the "hidden" costs associated, such as faster CF cards, better lenses, upgrading camera bags (this is a large beast and what my D70S fits into comfortably won't hold the D300 with grip and lens attached).
However, at the level that the D300 plays in it is comparable in price with it's counterparts and (currently) it's feature set is well above the competition.  Of course, that latter part will change - no one camera model stays on top for very long.
HTH