ID: B00000JGRS-R1M8TYMNFDAIZT-
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-300BK-Automatic-10-Cup-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: 
ReviewerName: 
Date: September 15, 2002
Helpful: 5 of 6
Rating: 1.0
Title: good concept, flawed choice
Content:
Seemed really great at first.  Put in your beans and the water, next morning pretty good fresh coffee.  There were a lot of parts to put together, though.  And then we discovered what a pain it is to clean.  Lots of coffee bean particles in water chamber, ugh.  I don't think they could have made the water chamber more difficult to clean, I bought a special brush but that only went so far.  I started using q-tips, not a good sign.  The little water gauge ball got dirty and couldn't be cleaned.One night, about 8 months after we got it, my wife is setting up for the next day's coffee, and it wouldn't stop that annoying incessant beeping.  Ostensibly to let you know that you forgot to put something together right, if you buy this coffee maker, you too will start hating the beep.  It just beeps and beeps until you get the missing piece in, or reseat it, or you just unplug it.  This night, though, it wasn't something missing, it was a faulty alignment, or sensor if you will, that created a false alarm.  I ended up putting a very small screw into the post on the lid to trick the unit into being quiet & making coffee.  (if you buy this coffee maker, keep a #4 stainless screw handy)Once the flimsy plastic lid for the carafe broke a tiny nub.  Called customer service and they sent out a new lid right away, no charge, no hassle.  For four days we had to turn the carafe to the side or the drip shutoff would activate, causing overflow of the fill basket.  Smart enough to beep, but not quite smart enough to keep from making a mess on the counter.  A few more weeks go by, and the unit started beeping falsely again.  I adjust the screw, put two more in, and that fixes it for another night.  The trial and error process requires me to listen to the beeping for at least 30 minutes as I adjust, test, adjust again.  Pulling the coffee maker out from under the cabinet for each test, cause it's big, and the lid doesn't fit under the cabinet.  Of course, this is all while I'm not going to sleep.  With the additional screws, we have to tape the lid down- the amount of pressure to trick the sensor is enough to pop open the lid.  The next day as soon as I arrived at work I ordered the Melitta MEMB1W Mill & Brew Coffeemaker from Amazon.  I tried it once, checked out how easy it was to setup, confirmed that it worked, tried the coffee, and smiled. I put the Cuisinart in the basement, on the theory that if the melitta burns out and we need coffee, we can use the cuisinart for a day while we buy another melitta.  I may have to hunt down and disconnect the beep first though.  I sincerely hope to never plug it in again.  I recommend that you buy a different version of this type of coffee maker.  Buy the melitta.  Buy the Krups.  Buy anything.  Just don't buy the beep.