ID: B000WG6XW6-R15JO284M1IKX2-A50RGXQINH5JX
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A50RGXQINH5JX
ReviewerName: Anwar Ali "dustypace"
Date: January 6, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 3.0
Title: one month review
Content:
I got the device on Black Friday, and wanted to give it some time before writing my opinion.  I initially picked up the IPOD classic the day it came out, and ended up returning it due to compatibility issues with my Vista OS.  Those issues I expected would be absent with a Microsoft device in the Zune, and largely that has been the case.
Pros
-Fantastic bright, clear display.  Excellent for watching videos and viewing pics.
-transfer rates for WMV clips is superb.  Its literally the same speed as moving files onto a USB flash drive.  With the Ipod, you have to convert first, which took forever using Itunes.  Here you can use Windows Movie Maker to convert to WMV.
-radio availability.  The Ipod did not have this feature, and its nice to be able to tune in, albeit FM signals only.
Cons
-absolutely poorly designed, antiquated, confounding Zune software.  Its completely counter-intuitive, and lacks so many features in terms of sorting music, creating smart playlists, and simply transferring what music, pics, and videos you want to put on the Zune.  There are dozens of duplicate songs on my Zune 80 which I still haven't figured out how to remove via the software.  
-where's a sort feature on the device?  On the Ipod, you could type in a few letters and the songs that matched the letters/words would pop up.  Imagine trying to locate a song which you can only remember a word or two in the title, and you're forced to scan through your entire collection to retrieve it.  
-I still haven't found a decent case for the Zune...Microsoft has to do a better job in promoting this product as the accessory market only enhances the Zune 80's value, and right now its non-existent.  
On the Ipod there was a game feature, which pulled trivia using the songs you had on the device.  The Ipod is the superior device today in terms of features, software, as well as being slightly more attractive.  I blame the Apple monopoly for the problems I had using it on my PC, otherwise the Ipod classic is largely appealing.
To sum it all up, the Zune 80 is still an excellent foray for Microsoft to at least get them onto the field.  Its still not even though, but I expect as time goes by Microsoft will push this product to catch up with Ipod, along with some innovations, much like the XBox going up against Playstation.
I recommend the Zune 80 for Windows users who want better integration with their PC.  I suspect there's nary an Apple user who has picked up the Zune 80 in place of the Ipod classic.  It gets 3 out of 5 stars only due to its grossly inferior software.