ID: B00063ZVK0-R2VWTLTXZNBDRV-A1EVZC4U3PQTLU
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Vornado-EH1-0028-06-Digital-Vortex-Heater
ReviewerID: A1EVZC4U3PQTLU
ReviewerName: RL "Tiger"
Date: November 20, 2004
Helpful: 123 of 126
Rating: 5.0
Title: The Best  Electric Heater Out There!
Content:
The Digital Vortex Heater is wonderful! We have a drafty attic office in our home, which has been impossible to heat.  We've gone through at least 3 different heaters (all under $50) with no luck.  We decided to try the Vornado Digital because of "how" it heats.
With other heaters, the room never really got warm.  As long as you sat or stood directly in front of the electric heater, you were freezing.  With the Vornado Digital heater, it warms the entire room by circulating the heat.  And believe me, no matter what other says, it works!  The only drawback, is it does take (depending on the size of the room, how cold it is outside, and how drafty the room is) some time to heat up the room.  For the attic office space we have, it's about a 20' by 20' space.  It warms up the room in about 20 mins, depending on how cold it is outside.  BUT, once it's warm, it stays warm!  The internal thermostat on the Vornado Digital works quite well.  We actually have to turn it down or off after a while, because it gets so warm.  I have been noticing after a few weeks of use, that it seems to warm up faster.  So maybe there was a break-in period it had to go through, I can't be sure.  Although, it does seem to work better after a little use.
We tried several different heaters from several different manufacturers, and the Vornado was by far the best at warming a room, and keeping it warm!  Is this heater the kind of heater that pumps out direct HOT air?  No.  If you want a heater that is just going to be pointed at you to keep you warm, this might not be the heater for you.  But if you want a heater that will heat up a room and keep it warm, with soothing warm air, there is no other heater better for the price!  Again, it's most amazing feature being that is circulates the air throughout the room.  Just for the feature alone I am satisfied, because I feel that's the secret to correctly heating a space.  The only downfall being, that it takes some time to do it.
My suggestion is to at the very least, try the Vornado Digital.  I purchased it from the Vornado website for $100.00, but I suggest going through Amazon to save on shipping.  I think you'll be happy you tried it!