ID: B0009VELUA-RLWZ1QYY28O5V-AOE143GUVY3EN
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-2000-Coffee-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: AOE143GUVY3EN
ReviewerName: Marty
Date: December 23, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 5
Rating: 1.0
Title: Now I know why I got mine so cheap
Content:
I picked up one of these at my local Goodwill Store for $10. When you buy anything with moving or electronic parts at a thrift shop, then there's a 95% chance it's broken. But the price was right, so I took a chance and bought it. When I got it home and tried it out, I was shocked to find that it worked perfectly. And I was happy for two weeks, until I read these reviews. You see, I don't program my coffee maker. I just make coffee whenever I feel the urge, and that can be any time in the day. 
When I read the reviews I saw that a great many people people had problems with the premature failure of the electronic timer on this machine, due to condensation shorting the timer out. So I tested my machine's timer, and lo and behold... it wouldn't work. So this explains how it ended up in a Goodwill Store and how I was able to buy it for $10.
But like I said, I never used the timer anyway, so for me this machine is great. Especially for ten bucks! For my needs, this is a five star product, but for everyone who actually uses the timer to have fresh coffee waiting for them in the morning before they go to work... then this coffee maker is worthless. Which is why I gave it one star only.
So the bottom line is... the timer was poorly designed and placed to get ruined by water condensation, and if you want a programable coffee maker than DO NOT buy this model. But if you never use a timer, then it's really a slick little machine, especially if you can find one for $10 like I did. This machine is such a clever idea, I'm amazed that Cuisinart hasn't fixed this design problem, or at least created a better new model with this design.
Incidentally, if you want a reliable coffee maker, then the Cuisinart Brew Central DCC 1200 is hard to beat. Just pass on the DCC 2000.