ID: B000F9Y2T6-R3TIEJBWTKHRGF-A1HKQ40U1BI77
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-7340-Flip-Select-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1HKQ40U1BI77
ReviewerName: wpb, fl
Date: January 3, 2007
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 4.0
Title: Quirky but does the job
Content:
For the price am not too surprised at the quirkiness of this machine. As others have mentioned, there is a tendency for it to push out a lot of water at one time and to not do a great job at sucking it back up. This being said, however, I've developed a few tricks to minimize these issues. 
1)Getting the right angle of the handle takes a while but once I get into a groove, I find that holding the handle at certain angles helps the suction problem.
2) If a lot of water comes out at once then I just push that around instead of trying to keep just one small part of my floor wet at one time. It's from the clean water tank so I don't feel like I'm just pushing around dirty water. And then with the handle trick I'm able to suction up the water over the larger area at a fairly quick clip. 
3) If I don't have the patience or time for dealing with the larger than desired volume of water I just fill the clean water tank half way from the get go and this seems to prevent the problem. 
4) I do use Murphy's oil soap for my wood floors. Here, the trick is to use a fraction of the amount required of the Bissell recommended cleaner. I use maybe a quarter of the amount if I'm using Murphy's with the full tank of water. And I'll use an even smaller amount if I'm using a less than full tank of water. Do not use too much Murphy's; it is an oil SOAP and too much causes the dirty water tank to fill and overflow with bubbles (yes, I've learned this from experience). 
Despite the quirks, my wood floors do look great after I use this machine and for the price I'm not sure I could expect a quirk-free machine. If I had the space I'd buy a heavier duty and more costly machine, but for my 790 sq ft apartment with mostly wood flooring this is ok.