ID: B000FK850C-R37AFX6JQ73BOL-A22QKNGN59XYZG
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: SH-1508-Tower-Ceramic-Heater-Ionizer
ReviewerID: A22QKNGN59XYZG
ReviewerName: Croppled1
Date: June 13, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: This is the one to buy period
Content:
My 88 year old Mother is always cold or hot even with central air and heat . Her eys are bad , she has to sit all day using a walker when she can get up . She swore I DONT NEED A HEATER . She cant even read a electronic thermostat anymore for the heat pump . 
So I bought this one . Its wonderful and the inonic feature does work it gives off a just rained scent to her room ...yup Moms incontinent now too . The remote and abillity to use as a fan are wonderful . Mom had a little hard time learning how to use it as she is starting to suffer from dementia . However its a safe unit with a automatic off feature and with patience going over it she learned what controls were important by how many times to push certian buttons . It does reset each time the unit is turned off if she loses track so she can go again . It has a foot switch to turn it off and on manual if it glitches to reset . The top has a compartment to put away the remote . We just leave it on her medication tray next to her chair . 
I want one ..she who was going to take me out of the will if I bought this for her wont let go of it . She loves it year round for the fan or heat . No more chills or adjusting the whole home thermostat . I just set that one for her ( bought a auto one for a heat pump that turns on the heat at 72 or lower , air at 77 or higher ) . With her Suppentown she is set . Having the thermostat and timer features inside it alone is worth 40 dollars look at the price of a Lux 100 exernal add on 110 thermostat switch . The remote is great . This is perfect for a bathroom it takes up little space and though only 120 degrees of rotation on the swivel we found it nicer so you could keep it off you if you wanted . This is the best electric heater made hands down . Sadly electronics like this time to time will go out in a blink but we have had ours now several months . Use it daily and its been just fine . I am buying mine today I just cant live without one . Mom loves it . PS I also bought here a svat remote switch and taped it to her walker so she can turn on a light in her room . She cant use a clapper after a stroke . She was goint to remove me from the will for that one too . She cant live without it now and we have another mounted to a bed rail .
Listen people you  dont have to be old to like having these itemes either it may look a little weird but a remote switch taped in fashion to ones head board turning on a light without stumbling around in complete dark is cool . You can just light up the bathroom or turn on the barking dog sound if you wake up after a creepy noise . The electronic age is now affordable . God Bless these things are nice for everyone . NOW just buy it everyone can use this heater keep your home 60 and the room your sitting in toasty . Small footprint big heat , perfect for bathrooms , basements , Moms room is 20 by 20 raises the temp a few degrees in minutes ( Florida but single pane cheap windows ) .