ID: B00006F2MI-R31EQOY2L92531-ALU8PO9YMWCAM
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Grind-Brushed-Chrome
ReviewerID: ALU8PO9YMWCAM
ReviewerName: Futureboy
Date: November 29, 2005
Helpful: 32 of 32
Rating: 5.0
Title: Love it.
Content:
I was a skeptic after reading all the negative reviews, and even encountered a disgruntled elderly woman at the store who told me how much she despised this machine, but something in my gut said I should buy it and I did. I've had this coffeemaker for three months now and it's become one of my most loved possessions, right up there with my handsfree wireless and my favorite pens. 
It is important to note that it takes a few brews to get to know your new coffeemaker. I too had the leak experience upon first brew, but I realized that I was obviously overfilling the water tank, despite what the level said. It's also taken some trial and error to get the right ratio of coffee to water, but one must understand that this is a factor of personal taste and shouldn't be dictated by some recipe. Yes, it takes a little extra effort to clean. But I've noticed that most nice things do take that extra effort to manage and maintain, and I don't mind getting my hands a smidge dirty in exchange for the result!
It does pour slower than the regular carafe. But that's a bit picky, don't you think? Seven seconds to fill your cup. What do you want, three seconds? What so great about that other four seconds? Is it life or death? If it is, you probably shouldn't be kicking back with a cup of coffee at the moment anyway. Plus, this is no regular carafe! I park this thing right next to me at the computer and don't have to travel back and forth to the kitchen to get more coffee - that's well worth the four seconds I'd save in the kitchen with my old coffeemaker.
It grinds loud? Of course it grinds loud. It's grinding. Just the nature of the word "grind" leads one to attach a certain amount of noise to the action in my mind. The process is swifter than my previous grind n' brew and actually a bit quieter - not that I mind the grind sound. I've come to appreciate it in a way.
I'm not one to usually write a review, but it seemed that others picked at this product and I felt compelled to share my thoughts on what I consider to be a fantastic addition to the kitchen. By one if you're on the fence. I'll be enjoying my french roast while you think about it.