ID: B000BP7MRS-RC14JDI54ZARH-AR4DPIWHQVYK4
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Braun-KF590-Impressions-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: AR4DPIWHQVYK4
ReviewerName: a horror chic
Date: August 14, 2008
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Satisfactory replacement
Content:
My husband broke the carafe on my 20+ year old Krups coffeemaker.  I knew I'd never find another carafe, and I was right.  We bought a cheap Braun and he promptly broke that carafe, too, and in the meantime, they stopped making that particular model.  Then we bought a Mr Coffee...awful!  Everything about it was horrid...basket filter (those stupid things never fit in the basket right and the maker did not come with a gold reuseable filter), major moisture  build-up under the reservoir lid, coffee spilled when poured.  I finally couldn't take it anymore and decided it would be worth the money just to get a coffeemaker with a cone filter.
I don't care about programming.  Why would you do this if you'll be using freshly ground coffee beans?  But if you're one of those people who *needs* to have coffee just to wake up, and can't quite get it together in the morning to make coffee, I guess that would be a great feature.  I also don't care about the water filter.  I use bottled water and buying white vinegar is waaay cheaper than buying those silly filters every two months or whatever, and it's more eco-friendly, too.
I'm very happy with this coffeemaker.  The carafe does not drip when you pour your coffee.  The coffee is burning hot, something the Mr Coffee coffeemaker was not capable of, apparently.  The warmer keeps the coffee hot, but does not seem to cook it down too badly when left for an hour or so; i.e., the coffee still tastes pretty good and doesn't need to be cut with scissors when pouring.  There is no build-up of moisture under the water reservoir lid as with the Mr Coffee coffeemaker.  It's black (an important issue for me).  And this baby uses a No. 4 cone filter.
The only issue I have is that the handle is glued to the carafe.  Gone are the days when there was a metal band around the neck of the carafe with the handle securly fastened to it, thus preventing the handle from coming off.  I'm just extra careful when I pick the carafe up and use paper towels so I can put my hand under the carafe.  I'm not too keen on having it burn the living you-know out of me should the handle come off.
I definitely recommend this coffemaker.  Buy two because I'm quite sure the company will quit making it soon (if they haven't already) and it seems increasingly hard to find a good, simple, inexpensive (relatively) coffeemaker without all the bells and whistles.