ID: B00006LHO7-R3TQMNNK2Y1IGI-AI10LRV2U5B3G
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Labs-Jukebox-Player-Firewire
ReviewerID: AI10LRV2U5B3G
ReviewerName: David Michael Cook
Date: April 26, 2003
Helpful: 8 of 13
Rating: 2.0
Title: A great concept, a flawed execution
Content:
I tried one of these for a long time and have to say that despite all of its "features" that supposedly make this product so much better, the iPod is still vastly superior. Personally, I find the Zen rather ugly, with a tiny blue-green screen and that idiotic "mouse-style" scrollwheel on the side. The front and back are nce and shiny, but overall, from external appearances, I was not impressed. Overall it just seems like a strange size and weight and it never quite fits anywhere.On to the actual point of owning one--playing music. In this, I can say that the Zen has nothing on the iPod. The search feature (typing a letter in one at a time by selecting it with the wheel); the organization system that just doesn't make sense, and the fact that you have to view everything on that little tiny screen--sure you can put 20 GB of music on it, but I dare you to find one song on that crappy little wheel in half the time it would take me on a 20 GB iPod!I do like that you can make playlists on the actual device, but the entire system suffers from far too much needless complexity. Everything is too complicated, too much "relearning". The sides are riddled with buttons, none of which have much tactile feedback, and trust me--if this is in your pocket, you won't have much idea which side is which without looking! On my iPod, I can change songs, raise and lower the volume, etc. without even thinking or looking at the device itself. It's just a simpler, more efficient way. I've given the Zen 2 stars for having a large drive, a decent appearance (certainly better than those horrible Archos hunks-of-junk), and high-speed connectivity. It is a technical masterpiece, with the ability to create playlists, change EAX settings, add reverb and speed changes to your music, and record... but all of this is utterly ruined by its stupid wheel, bad organizational system, poor screen, and needless complexity (if you select a song in the list, it begins playing but your screen does not change to indicate which song is playing--in fact, if you scroll for a while you will soon have NO CLUE what song you're playing, what song is next, etc. until you back all the way out of every menu and go to Now Playing. By contrast, the iPod switches to show the current song, and pressing menu lets you select another song, or back out the SIMPLE, THREE-LEVELS-DEEP MENU system to get back to Now Playing. The Zen's menu system is 5 to seven levels deep when it could be two or three!)I'm all for iPod competition, but the iPod is still the best. Get it instead--you won't regret it.