ID: B000VDQ38E-R10CRJV4X2MWR7-A30TBE6JJEUX6P
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A30TBE6JJEUX6P
ReviewerName: A. Boatwright
Date: February 13, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 2.0
Title: Worked great for 5 months
Content:
I bought this vacuum last September (2008), and it has worked well up until the end of January.
During the past couple uses, I noticed that the brush roller wasn't turning very fast and sometimes would stop. I tried to adjust the height of the unit via the knob on the front, but it didn't appear to to anything; the vacuum didn't raise up and the roller was still having trouble turning.
Keep in mind this vacuum has had relatively light use, most of our house is hard wood floor, but we have 2 area rugs that we bought the vacuum for.
Eventually I stopped using the unit and emailed customer service. The carpets weren't getting very clean (as a result of the poor performance from the roller), and I started to smell a light rubber burning smell. I knew that the roller not turning would eventually take its toll on the belt, so I discontinued use to avoid putting any more wear on the components.
I emailed customer service and explained everything, they said I needed to buy a new belt and it would not be covered under warranty. Now I understand "consumable" things in products need to be replaced over time, but I feel the belt wore out prematurely. The vacuum this Bissell replaced was a Hoover, and after 8 years of service all it required was regular bag changes, never had any belt trouble.
Take the battery in your car (a consumable). All car batteries wear out after a number of years, but if your new battery stopped holding a charge after just half a year, it would prove to be defective. 
I still have the box and receipt for this unit, and am tempted to take it back to Target, but doubt they will help me since it has been 5 months.
I would not recommend this vacuum for long term use.
I hope this was helpful.