ID: B00005YXZB-R2OIFF8JLH9K92-A1LRUGV6HZBSPI
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Zelco-Brisk-Brew-Travel-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1LRUGV6HZBSPI
ReviewerName: T. Smith-Wright "MarathonWalkerGirl"
Date: May 21, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Ahhh!  MY morning coffee on the road!
Content:
My morning just isn't "right" unless I have coffee in hand while I get ready.  I also use a blend of 1/2 decaf and 1/2 regular for the sake of my stomach. The coffee provided by so many hotels will cause stomach issues for me.  And like so many other reviewers, I was disgusted by the lack of coffee in my Vegas hotel rooms. I hated getting cleaned up enough to go stand in line for an overpriced cup to take back to the room. Realizing that I'd be there for a third time in six months, I had to take action.  Research led me to this little Zelco.  I couldn't be happier!
It came in well packaged.  Very simple to put together.
I took to heart the advice of others to try out before traveling with it and was glad I did.  It took a little practice to get the right amount of coffee plus grind plus bean to get that "right" cup of coffee.
It truly is small.  It takes up less space than my make-up bag and I'm no "glamour girl".
It also comes with little (I do mean little) storage containers and a collapsable spoon.  I didn't use the containers. It didn't seem like they'd hold more than a day or two of coffee--but I didn't really check it out closely.  The little spoon is handy for using with the coffee-maker and stiring in you favorite additives, but that's it.  It isn't sturdy enough for anything else.
It is a bit on the messy side for cleaning up.  The little basket that holds the coffee is a challenge to get all the grounds out of.  I generally emptied most in the trash and then just put more coffee in to make the next cup.  I didn't do a complete clean up until done for the morning. I took an old toothbrush and used a little of my shampoo for the "washing-up".
The start button is a little difficult to catch to the on postition, but seemed to work better as I continued to use the machine.  
In our household, I'm the only coffee drinker, but I can imagine that it might be a bit challenging to make enough coffee to keep two people going in the morning.  In that situation, it might be better to take two spare mugs so the you can continue to use the coffee-maker's cup to catch the brew.
It's very minor, but I was pleasantly surprised at how cleanly the cup poured when I used it to put water into the reservior.  I would also pour the end of a cup into a glass so I could start the next cup.  It never dripped (and I have trouble pouring a cup of coffee out of a pot without dripping all over!)
If you travel and want YOUR cup of coffee in the morning (or afternoon or night), I encourage you to make one of these your regular traveling companion.