ID: B000JO1MU4-R36JQKVW5GQL9K-A20E69UNA0YHI3
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Silver-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A20E69UNA0YHI3
ReviewerName: DRM
Date: May 18, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: The best mp3 player I have ever owned.
Content:
I have resisted buying an ipod for over a year now. I have purchased inferior cheap mp3 players and middle of the road mp3 players. The last player I purchased was a Nextar. It  was a nightmare hard to load my music I could not load any more than 265 songs. This left a lot of my favorite music from my CD's out in the cold. When the pixels began to die on the screen  I  realized I was not saving money. I was wasting it by buying cheap products with a short life expectancy. I knew I needed something with more memory, and that was easy to use. I was reluctant to buy and ipod because, I find windows media player easier to use than iTunes. Another reason I was reluctant to buy and ipod is that Apple is constantly upgrading the players. My fear was that if I buy one and next month a better ipod hits the market. Well after suffering for months with that crappy Nextar I threw caution to the wind. I purchased my 3g 8g ipod nano from QVC home shopping network. They offered a  flex pay option(installment plan) and it came with a car charger, home charger and speakers. I got it just in time the item is now sold out in all the colors they offered.
If you haven't guessed it already I am cheap and the flex pay offer took my focus off the price :) 
Based on the reviews here I went out and purchased a case for my nano the same day I received it. Guess what? I still have one scratch on the back of the unit. Apple should work on making the product more resistance to scratches. Apple should also add an FM tuner not any time soon since I just brought this product :)
Otherwise I am happy with my purchase and I am adjusting to iTunes. I am still not a fan of this software. I no longer care that a new generation nano is on the way. I am tickled pink with my 3g 8g ipod nano. I will keep it until the battery dies which I hope does not happen anytime soon.
Bottom Line
Take  it from a cheap skate buy this product or a Zune (I know someone who has one and loves it) any other product is a waste of time and money.