ID: B0000EI9VR-R26WZUALEUYFX6-
Category: MP3Players
Product: iriver-H120-20GB-MP3-Jukebox
ReviewerID: 
ReviewerName: 
Date: November 26, 2003
Helpful: 13 of 14
Rating: 4.0
Title: An excellent MP3 player
Content:
If you're looking for the PERFECT MP3 player...well, this isn't it, because one probably doesn't exist yet. This is, however, an excellent choice in the increasingly crowded field of hard drive based MP3 players. I haven't tried the new Rio Karma or the Nomad Zen NX (which I hear are both good players), but it stacks up pretty favorably with the IPodFirst, the positives. It comes with an inline remote WITH LCD DISPLAY, which is something that no other MP3 player has to date and is extremely cool. It also plays FM radio, and has OGG support with firmware. Though it's not as small as the IPod, it is by no means cumbersome. The battery life is excellent: if I recall, the manual states the battery life to be around 16 hours, and I found with regular use that its around 12-14 hours, far and away beyond the IPod and I think the best in the market. And while not as aesthetically pleasing as the IPod, it still is quite attractive in its included leather case; also, you can still manipulate the controls while its in its the case. Plus, it has a voice recording function which I haven't had the oppurtunity to use yet.Now for the negatives. The file navigation system is a little tricky, it'll take some time to master it. The buttons on the inline remote feel a bit cheap, I hope they don't break. And while it does have FM radio(one of the main reasons I purchased it), I found the antenna to be quite weak. The joystick navigation on the IRiver itself is going to be a problem for large fingers. In addition, the included earbuds suck, but that goes for all MP3 players. The price is a little high for the relatively small storage, too.Overall, I think this is an excellent purchase, especially for its wide range of features. While it's not perfect, I think the IRiver IHP 120 is a worthy purchase for your hard earned money.