ID: B00006HYWR-R1PZTK3NI1294R-AJJ11F5MHN8K9
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Labs-NOMAD-MuVo-Player
ReviewerID: AJJ11F5MHN8K9
ReviewerName: sfarmer76 "sfarmer76"
Date: June 24, 2003
Helpful: 14 of 19
Rating: 4.0
Title: MuVo Improves My Day Considerably
Content:
The Creative MuVo is an ultra-compact digital music player that will allow music enthusiasts to easily transfer MP3s, WMA files, or regular data files from place to place with a USB connector, and can hold up to two hours of music. This device, designed with ease of use in mind, weighs less than an ounce, and is only slightly larger than your average butane lighter. Thankfully, the MuVo will play for up to 12 hours on a single AAA battery. No special drivers or cords are needed to operate it.   The MuVo comes with a set of bud headphones, and a lanyard if you want to carry it around your neck, or under your shirt, but I would recommend to Creative that they also package it with an adjustable velcro strap or clip-on case -- since almost everyone I sell a MuVo to intends to use it while jogging or running.   Since I also see people buying these two at a time (his and hers, sister/sister, roommates, etc.) I'd suggest to Creative that they might want to include some color stickers in the package to keep arguments down and help people more readily distinguish between the two.   The MuVo has a unique two piece design made of molded plastic. The light gray piece featured in the graphic above is essentially the memory stick (where files are stored), with a headphone jack on its right side, and a USB connector on its left (concealed by dark blue plastic on bottom left of graphic). The silver track and power controls are on the front of this gray piece, and the silver volume and loop buttons are on the bottom of this gray piece. The power button has a bright phosphorus green LED that can even be seen through a white tee shirt, if you were to wear the MuVo under your shirt as I sometimes do.   The larger blue piece, of the two-piece MuVo, is simply a receptacle for the gray piece -- and also holds the battery compartment. You can snap the two pieces together by pushing the gray memory stick into the socket of the blue grooved handpiece along a sliding track.   MuVo has a silver eyelet mount on its upper right corner -- ostensibly for people that may want to carry it on a keychain or hang it from a lanyard. After some short length of time I found it too easy to scratch, so I no longer carry it on my keychain as I did for awhile.   Be careful when removing the memory stick from its plugged-in state, especially when you are still attached to a computer. Make sure you have properly exited any open programs, as if you were to remove the stick memory abruptly it is possible to damage the flash memory.   Since I have both a PC and a Mac, I am happy to report that the MuVo can be operated off of either platform. On my PC I use my RealOne subscription to rip and convert files from CD to MP3 for use on the MuVo; and on the Mac I use iTunes to rip and convert files from CD to MP3 for use on the MuVo.   On either platform, after ripping and conversion, all you have to do is drag and drop the songfiles onto the device. A music file is a music file is a music file. Songs will usually play anywhere, no matter what your equipment.   Not only is the MuVo good for music, but it's great for carrying photos to another persons printer or computer, carrying a spreadsheet from work to home or vice versa, or toting a print job to a graphics company for output on their large-scale image setter.   Working off of my 9500X PC laptop, I can usually store two CDs of MP3 music on the MuVo. For some unknown reason, when working off my Mac with iTunes, I can only store one CD of MP3 music on it. I think maybe I'll need to read up on file-compression schemes unless somebody else out there has any ideas. I generally don't like the WMA format, but the file sizes are supposed to be more economical for storage and theoretically I should be able to fit more music on the MuVo when I'm using it in conjunction with the other computer in my home, so I think I will have to experiment with it a little more and get back with you later on this specific facet.   You may enjoy the MuVo much more if you have a cable broadband internet connection such as Comcast, a RealOne subscription, or access to either EZ CD Creator (PC), MusicMatch (PC), iTunes (MAC) software, or Limewire Pro (MAC).   I've been able to load pretty much anything I've tried to onto the MuVo, with the exception of a few tracks off of the George Harrison album Brainwashed, that, for whatever reason, just would not copy over correctly. I bought this MuVo a few months back, and although I now consider this MP3 player to be high priced for what it does, I am still basically happy with my purchase.   WHAT'S ON MY MUVO RIGHT NOW?   HOOTIE & THE BLOWFISH New Self-Titled Album, Their Fifth Studio Release   Track 1 Deeper Side I found a reason to dig deep down There's a part of you that, that I ain't found It's in your deeper side Instead of wondering what I should do I tried to learn a couple of things about you From your deeper side...   SOUNDS GREAT! (130/1,228)    Pros: Automatic Shutoff, Ease of Use, Small and SimpleCons: No Way to Program Tracks, Only Plays in Order Songs Were Loaded