ID: B00004S9CN-R1O9ONROWNGVNO-A2SRVDDDOQ8QJL
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-300-Automatic-10-Cup-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A2SRVDDDOQ8QJL
ReviewerName: M. J Lane
Date: February 22, 2003
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: Some comments on other reviews
Content:
Since there are many reviews of this item I'd like to add to those and amplify where I think appropriate.  I bought this coffeemaker as a Christmas present for my Mom and have since had many opportunities to use it (Mom uses it every day).  I wanted to wait a few months before commenting so as to have a chance to really get a feel for the machine.  I believe there was a redesign of this machine sometime immediately prior to the December 2002 shopping season so I'm commenting on the redesigned machine.First, I would like to echo other comments regarding the quality of the coffee, it is really top notch.  I would also like to agree with at least one other reviewer in saying that the grind of the coffee is quite course and means you have to go through a lot of coffee beans to make a strong enough cup.  Also, since not all the water is filtered through coffee grinds it seems that any flavor to the water (such as chlorine) is amplified.  You'll find yourself using a lot of beans and bottled water to get the best coffee from this machine.Second, I'd like to disagree pretty strongly on the comments about the difficulty in cleaning the machine.  After a standard brew you do have to take apart the machine and rinse everything but in my experience this is a 3-4 minute process.  Maybe once every two weeks you will want to do a throughough washing of all the parts to prevent coffee oil accumulation that may degrade the performance of the unit.  That process does take some time and could be as much as 15 minutes if you are doing it by hand.  You also MUST dry everything befor using it again which can be a pain if you clean right before you use the machine.Third, I'd like to agree that this bad boy is LOUD.  There does not seem to have been a whole lot of effort made to dampen the sound from the machine and you can plan to wake up everyone inthe house when you turn on the grinder.  That is an important consideration for those of you who have people sleeping well past the time you wake up.  They WILL be annoyed at you if they are anywhere in the immediate vicinity.Lastly I'd like to make some misc comments.  The lid of my machine seems fine, no problems.  The handle of the pot on my unit appears to be sturdy and well attached.  The heating element keeps the coffee super-hot.For the price they are currently asking this one seems hard to beat.