ID: B0006HUYTE-R2LJPD47UZTBX6-A29KVH8ZPQLRMU
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-Sanitaire-SC3683A-Commercial-Canister
ReviewerID: A29KVH8ZPQLRMU
ReviewerName: C. D. French "farmer"
Date: May 15, 2008
Helpful: 69 of 70
Rating: 4.0
Title: space-saving hard worker
Content:
We bought this to replace a Eureka Mitey-Mite that died after 25 hard-working years. It has the HEPA filtration of my too-heavy Eureka Wind-Tunnel upright and the Power Paw attachment for extra suction that is as good or better than our 2 yr old Rainbow for removing pet hairs from the carpet, and with less effort on our part. The Power Paw, offering additional "oomph!" works on other vacuums, too, slipping onto the end of the hose or extensions.
The hose doesn't flatten if stepped upon, as did the Wind-Tunnel's, and the handy "on-board" most commonly used accessories--the corner/blinds wand and a superbly handy 2-headed attachment of the brush end and small flat "foot" are more easy to grab and reattach to the body of the machine than any vacuum I've ever used (over 50 yrs experience).    
The main downside to this vacuum for me is that I can't find the MM bags in area stores and must keep track of usage to reorder them online before  I run out of spares. However, they come in large volume sets, and each bag holds quite a lot of unmentionables.  I used a Mitey-Mite C bag each time I vacuumed the house; I can do the same house at least twice on one MM bag. If I could find bags more easily, this review would go up another half-star. The front-loading bag changes easily without the lid fighting every effort to close it. 
If you thought a bagless vacuum was the way to go, think again! SOMEONE has to empty and clean that cupful of "whatevers," eventually.  Even if your vacuum has a HEPA filter, guess where all the little nasties it filtered from your air have landed, waiting for you to put them back into the air on their way to the garbage bin.  This canister's bag with  self-closing flap can eliminate the dust and the loose mess of a cup. One doesn't have to look at the nasty, or share it with the world again; just remove the bag from the canister & dump it neatly into the trash.
With the HEPA filter, it appears we have fewer dust motes dancing in the sun beams, as well. This filter is easily accessible at the rear of the canister and cleans easily with an occasional toss in the washer or rinse-off at the sink. It is also replaceable from stock available most hardware stores (or online). If into aromatherapy, sprinkle a drop of your preferred scent on this filter just before using the vacuum. 
I enjoy having extra space in the utility closet--this canister fits on a small shelf and the hose & extension with floor "foot" take up very little space, compared to the Rainbow and all its accessories or the Wind-Tunnel demanding most of the floor space and smacking our faces whenever we peered into the closet for something else.  
Unlike the Hoover it deposed, this canister doesn't chew belts faster than teens chew gum. 
The canister is lightweight and can be carried or will follow one obediently, even over raised door stops, without disconnecting at the hose base.  It works well with wood, cement, tile, linoleum floors and carpet (as well as on window trims and upholstery). The hose air adjustment slide functions more smoothly than anything else I've used, making it easier to avoid sucking off the fringe on the area carpet. 
The on/off switch is easily accessed by hand (or foot) and the long cord allows one to clean most rooms (or several adjoining rooms) without moving to a new power outlet. I miss the retractable cord of my 1960's Kenmore canister and the slide-away grip to quick-release the coiled cord that my Mitey-Mite had (the other half star this model did not receive to have 5 in total), but we find the cord coils tidily under the canister with a few moment's effort. 
After a year's use, we're still very pleased with it and hope it comes out in a completely robotized version that also does windows & makes dinner on weeknights.