ID: B000VDQ38E-R2ISYFBV6VHBG6-A1E8QVE2CY6H2J
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1E8QVE2CY6H2J
ReviewerName: speedgeezer
Date: December 7, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 1.0
Title: Some positives, but major negative = not a big fan
Content:
As did Mr. Liversidge, we had had quite enough of our Dyson.  Piped it over the side, and bought the Bissell 3920 Pet Hair Eraser.  Here are the positives: the Bissell was not very expensive (a fraction of the cost of a Dyson); its dust/hair collection bin is easily removed, emptied, and reinstalled; the upper-chamber cone-like catcher is also easily removed, disassembled, cleaned, and reinstalled (just follow the rather subtle "turn this way" arrows on the bottom of that unit); all filters are readily accessible and cleanable; the full run of the vacuum circuit is easily seen and, if need be, unclogged.  This is in contrast to the Dyson we dumped.  Once it got clogged, it STAYED clogged.  Negatives for the Bissell are many.  Fairly minor ones first: It's fairly heavy to push/pull (no more uprights for us--give me a canister); luggable up and down stairs.  On the pull stroke it has an uncanny ability to aim for your kneecaps.  The cord is a pain, any why is that?  Didn't your mom have an Electrolux back in the last century with an automatically feeding/rewinding cord?  Why not now?  The on/off switch is also a pain, located on the body of the unit, rather than on the handle where it should be.  The Turbo Brush attachment looks really cool, and worked great for about 30 seconds.  The bearings for the rotary brush got jammed up with, well, pet hair.  Now for the major negative: it's all but quit working, after four months in ordinary household use.  Hmmmm...what's that odd smell?  Well, it's the brush drive belt glazing and cooking.  The motor works fine, creates a bunch of vacuum; but the rotary brush rarely turns, and if it doesn't do that, the entire unit is pretty close to useless.  The certifiably useless off-shore "help" line said I needed to replace the toothed belt.  I said, If there ever were teeth on that belt, they're not there now.  Furthermore, a toothed belt would imply a toothed pulley on the motor shaft--not there.  A local technician I called said this unit has no toothed belt, no toothed pulley.  The unit has a smooth belt being driven by the fairly small diameter motor shaft.  There is just not enough friction to run the belt to drive the brush on heavy carpet.  And there is no idler pulley to adjust the tension of the belt after, say, it gets overheated and stretches.  I would not have taken the time to write this review, except for the fact that I have really reached my limit with American corporations putting out poorly-designed products, having totally bogus "customer service" (increasingly, a contradiction in terms), and pinching pennies all along the way.