ID: B000A33B1C-R2OFMDOBVZ4OUW-A30VA04QCIYW3J
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Delonghi-TRD0715T-Safe-Oil-Filled-Radiator
ReviewerID: A30VA04QCIYW3J
ReviewerName: nickro
Date: January 5, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: The little radiator that can
Content:
Delonghi TRD0715T 
I bought this a few days ago and I must confess that despite my initial concern that it could not adequately heat my bedroom properly I am pleasantly surprised.  I have awoken the last two mornings to a toasty, if not stiflingly hot, room each time despite the single digit temperatures outside. Looks in this case are surly deceptive. 
Upon arriving home after purchasing this unit at Lowe's I unpacked the heater in the garage to give it a test run and to mitigate any damage by unpleasant surprises. The outside temperature was 14deg and the inside garage temp was 38. Within 3 hours it was a pleasant 58deg in my two-car garage.  This fall I insulated the 16' garage doors with rigid foam insulation in anticipation of winter and since the walls were already insulated because it was a former display model it stays a bearable 42 degrees most of the time. Since it passed the first test reasonably well with no leaks and just one loud popping sound as it settled into its' initial break-in period it was off to the bedroom. 
My initial goal was to turn the house thermostat down at night so I wasn't heating my entire 1800 sq/ft house all night and still have it comfortable in the bedroom. So house thermostat set to 64deg and Delonghi set to the high 3 setting and max thermo setting I retired for a good nights sleep. At this setting all you feel is a gentle flow of hot air radiating from the top of the radiator.  I was not overly optimistic this was going to work. 
In the morning I awoke to a VERY toasty bedroom. After checking the temperature with a thermometer I was surprised to see that it was a stifling 78deg. The master bath was also very warm. This is well over 300 sq/ft of floor space.  The outside 6 AM temp was a frigid 1.6deg. So now I felt very assured that this little radiator was going to be up to the task. 
The next night I readjusted the unit to the No. 2 setting and turned the units' thermostat down a little bit. The house was set to 61deg. In the morning with a 4deg outside reading the room temperature was a more bearable 74deg. I am sure that I will find my desired sleep number of about 66deg by just tweaking the adjustments. The unit is totally silent and does not give off any odors as described in some of the other postings.
 
 I must admit that the timer left me a little befuddled at first. Once I realized that my initial impression that some of little red levers were broken off and that I just needed to drag the levers into the inner ring for on and the outer ring for off that it is a very simple and efficient system. 
I am very pleased with the performance of this unit. It is the little radiator that can.