ID: B000NVVDKC-R2LB2V3M34O18V-ALOH3V8NMOU4E
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Evolt-Digital-Camera-Stabilization
ReviewerID: ALOH3V8NMOU4E
ReviewerName: Gary L. Kellogg
Date: May 24, 2008
Helpful: 7 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Pure, RAW, enjoyment for enthusiasts.
Content:
There are many excellent and thoughtful reviews here. Those, plus a lengthy and informative review by Andrzej Wrotniak (Google it) motivated me to purchase the E-510 with two lens kit from Amazon. Info from the reviews, a Quick Start DVD for this camera (that I think should be included in the retail box) and familiarity with my Olympus C-5060 have provided a quick learning experience. I have been getting excellent pictures from the first day.
I decided to shoot in RAW only with my new DSLR. The results have been stunning. Olympus' RAW format seems to give a latitude of 3 (three) f stops or more and enables so many tweaks that even a grossly careless setting can often be fixed in post production. Of course it is always better to get everything correct in the camera. One way is to use automatic bracketing. Olympus requires that you activate this via the menu system. I would like to see it available on the Control Panel, but it's a small inconvenience.
I use the camera for both pleasure and business. For business, I need to take pictures under conditions as they are presented, sometimes very contrasty, sometimes too little light, etc. By shooting RAW I am not just pleased, but astonished at the amount of information Olympus' sensor gathers and which can be brought out by manipulating the RAW file. The image stabilization works great and lets me generously fudge recommended shutter settings for a given focal length.
These observations about the RAW files would apply to any current DSLR I suppose. But I have this one; so there. As a general note, If you have a camera that shoots RAW and you are not using it, then you are probably giving up on lots of shots that could be "keepers" had they been shot in RAW. Pros who used to shoot negative film knew that those negatives held a lot of image information that could be used if needed. Of course, extracting it required expert processing and cash. Today, pictures are all but free, memory is dirt cheap and if you can't use Photoshop, there are a number of freeware or shareware RAW converters, not to mention Olympus' own Master 2 software that does a decent job itself. Play around with RAW and you'll be amazed.
I agree with others who are less than delighted with the Live View feature. It is not that it is poorly designed, just that the DSLR format and technology is not quite ready to allow a feature like this to really work as I would wish. If not in a hurry for a shot, then Live View is useable but a bit noisy. An articulated LCD display such as I have on my older C-5060 or which is available on the E-3 for almost triple the price would help a lot. 
In closing, the E-510 is a feature rich camera for the price, and the build quality, the feel of the camera and the results make it an excellent choice for an enthusiast. Highly recommended.