ID: B000HBAHNW-R2A3IF9I2YUKPE-A1UZWL9KV24U0Q
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-S5281-Callisto-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A1UZWL9KV24U0Q
ReviewerName: Skeptic
Date: January 26, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 4.0
Title: WoW!
Content:
I was feeling sick being at my home and tried many vacuums but they usually didn't lasted very long and constantly needed belt replacements or other repairs. Besides you had to vacuum vacuum itself all the time. Besides all current vacuum cleaners took very wrong direction- almost all of them are bagless these days. I would never purchase bagless vacuum in my life. First of all it is better to dump a bag and put another one. Second all these dust particles will not end up at your home again after you dumped all dirt from bagless vacuum collection tray. I also like canister vacuums. They are very popular in Europe. Upright ones might save some space but they vacuum worse. 
After I unpacked my Miele Callisto I was surprised that all labels stated that it is made in Germany. That is quality people! Everything is made in China these days and quality for most part suffers. This vacuum is made like a tank. It will last you a lifetime. Everything is outstanding quality.
 Now about vacuuming part. After first try I noticed that something happened - air in a room was incredible! I stopped sneezing and coughing. Vacuum is sealed and it has HEPA filter. HEPA filter catches 100% dust. Check out youtube videos. It is the only vacuum (at least made for household use) who has true HEPA filter. Everyone else is just imposing that.
Now about minuses. Fist of all is price. More than $[...] is probably one of the most expensive vacuums on a market. However you have to divide this price to the expected years of use. I think this vacuum will last you at least 10 years.  Still it is not easy decision to spend so much money. Second thing I dislike is how heavy is stick which connect vacuum hose and vacuuming head. It is made of I think aluminum and has power cord inside so that is the reason why it is so heavy. But it will withstand some abuse and regular use too. Third thing is that while it is quiet it is still quite loud- most of the noise comes from power head (if you turn it on) than vacuum itself.  Fourth thing I dislike  is confusing marketing. For example what is the difference between series 5 (Callisto and others) vs series 4? And what is the difference among Callisto and other models of series 5? It seems that colors and a few minor things are the main difference. Also electric  or air powered nozzles. In my opinion air powered nozzles are more than sufficient. I think I should have purchased either Miele Pisces (series 5) or series 4 Antares instead. That is the difference of >200-300 dollars. I bought it from miele.com, they have 30 days return policy. I think I will exchange it. In any case Miele is the best.
Just do your lungs a favor and buy Miele vacuum. It leaves any dysons or other Chinese assembled vacuums in a dust. Beware that heavy marketing is not equal to the true performance. I am very surprised that I started to like vacuuming!