ID: B0000YTYGM-R3FUIUI1BB0PL1-A1YESZE1BPRTU3
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DTC-975BKN-Programmable-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1YESZE1BPRTU3
ReviewerName: Carolaf
Date: December 12, 2005
Helpful: 20 of 22
Rating: 4.0
Title: This Coffee Maker Rocks
Content:
I really wanted a programmable thermal coffeemaker that made hot coffee.   This one fits my requirements, but after reading the reviews, I was concerned about the lid and decided against it.  Then, as I looked at stores, I found this one on display at Linens N Things, and I played with the lid...for about 30 minutes!  I could not, no matter what I did, get the blasted lid on straight.  Impossible.  Now, I'm fairly intelligent, usually quite good at problem solving, but I really couldn't get the darned lid on right.  
I would have left this alone for good, except I found it on display at another store and just out of curiousity tried the lid on that one.  Went right on straight, no problems, perfect.  I tried it over and over again and didn't have one single problem with it.  
I took a chance and bought one, and when I got it home, I found the lid very easy to open, close, get it on perfectly every time.  I've had no problems at all.  I think there must be some of these that have the lid threads misaligned or something, which keeps the lid from sitting correctly (which is why some people have troubles and others don't), and all the rest are fine. 
I use the timer, set it for 4:30 am (I get up about 5) and the coffee is perfect.  In fact, when I get home from work around 4 to 5-ish, the coffee is actually still warm.  
I loved this coffee maker...until it overflowed, all over the kitchen.  12 cups of hot, hot coffee and coffee grounds everywhere.  Twice in a row.  I finally figured out what happened.  There's a little button underneath the coffee filter that comes down when you remove the carafe to get a cup of coffee while it is still brewing.  That button stops the coffee flow through the filter while you grab that first cup.  You need to ensure that when you put the coffee pot underneath the filter, that the top of the carafe pushes up that little button.  Since I've done that, it hasn't overflowed again.  
I love this coffee maker.