ID: B00005IBX9-R2LBSPT3JB399J-A2JU8M6ACN5O74
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1200-Central-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A2JU8M6ACN5O74
ReviewerName: L. Williams
Date: March 3, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Happy with this one!
Content:
I researched coffee makers pretty thoroughly before finally buying this one.  I read the reviews, watched the videos and even did an informal survey of friends.  Why?  Because I have coffee once a day so I want it to be very good.  I am not however someone who wants to jump through lots of hoops to get a very good cup of coffee at home.  It is just coffee to me not a magic potion.  I buy good beans, but they have to sell them at the grocery store.  No special trips.  I make it at home for myself and sometimes enough for my spouse if he happens to be here in the am.  
I ruled out the single serve makers like Keurig with the pods because they seem wasteful and the pods awkward to store.  I ruled out the Bunns because although they have fast brewing times (3 minutes), I am not in a race, and those residential machines did not have the niceties I wanted.  Like a midcycle pause feature so I could get a cup while the coffee was brewing. I also like to be able to program it to start automatically in the morning and turn off the heating element on its own.  Some people like a thermal carafe because they say the heating element on the plate makes the coffee in glass carafes taste "burnt."  I ruled out the thermal carafes because I don't keep the coffee on that long anyway.  Also, I read mixed reviews about the ability of thermals to keep the coffee hot even for short periods. I ruled out a number of the high end machines which were high maintenance and just too much work.  I am not going to grind the coffee just so, make sure the temp of the water going in is just "right" and do a dance while pouring it!  The automatic grind machines get terrible reviews for the most part and they are tough to keep clean.  Plus most of them don't have a burr grinder without which most people can't tell if you used pre-ground beans from the store.  I also ruled out the low end machines on the theory that sometimes you can find a bargain, but most times you get what you pay for. 
So, I got this Cuisinart that is very popular -- for good reason.  The taste of the coffee is great.  It has a pause feature, is programmable, and has no drips when pouring from carafe. It is also easy to clean and use. I also like that you can program it to automatically shut off after a certain amount of time. I read that some people have a hard time keeping the coffee warm once it brewed.  There is a knob with settings.  If you turn it to high, the coffee on our machine is kept nice and hot.  I do not notice any burnt flavoring even after an hour.  Very good coffee maker for a good price.  I recommend it for coffee drinkers who care about the taste but don't want making it to be a whole production.