ID: B000GTR2F6-R1LUHJH7VC17Z6-A11PRN5AT51KCP
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Platinum-Single-Cup-Brewing-System
ReviewerID: A11PRN5AT51KCP
ReviewerName: Skip
Date: January 25, 2007
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: Overall, a very good unit
Content:
We have owned a model B-60 for about a year and really like the brewer, however, it doesn't fill a good size mug.  As a result, and because I don't like strong coffee ie. Starbucks, I found that rather than purchase K-Cups with a mild blend that I would normally prefer, I could purchase the extra bold blends and fill my mug by resetting the brewer with the same cup installed.  This gave me a full mug and a mild brew.
When I saw the B-70 and read that it would brew an 11.25 oz mug, I thought that I could do essentially the same thing but without the double brewing process.  This hasn't worked out for me.  I think the brew size claims are either a bit exaggerated or my mugs are really big ;-)
Before I purchased the unit, I read the other reviews of which one was negative due to the noise the brewer created.  While it does make a fair amount of noise while it is refilling the water heater chamber, it is such a short period of time that I don't think it's big deal.  It may cause something nearby on the counter to vibrate and generate additional noise, however.  Another review was positive based on the larger water reservoir. I'm not sure I would go along with with that - if it is larger, it is by a an almost negligible amount as compared to the B-60.  It does have some nice additional features that the B-60 does not such as a blue back lit display which is helpful for viewing since the unit is typically sitting on the counter under overhead cabinets.  Also when the water reservoir needs refilling, the same blueish back lighting (which also illuminates the reservoir) flashes on and off.
Given that I purchased the B-60 about a year ago for about $130 and I paid $169 for the B-70, if I had had the option and experience at the time of my first purchase I would have opted for the B-70 but I wouldn't recommend others to do what I did unless you can sell the B-60 for close to the original purchase price.
I do really like the K-Cup Keurig brewing system in general.  We tried the Senseo style even before the Keurig B-60 and didn't like it at all.