ID: B000JO1380-R2OR7QRE66H1P-A3JYSY4P6BADUS
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-classic-Silver-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A3JYSY4P6BADUS
ReviewerName: Samuel Clemens "Example: Sam"
Date: July 21, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great MP3 Player
Content:
When I was looking for an music player for my birthday, I looked right away at the iPod. My sister, four or five years ago, got the Apple Ipod 20GB 4th Generation and has been pleased with it (never replaced because she doesn't want to use it for videos). A friend of mine told me to look at the Zune 80 GB Digital Media Player Black (2nd Generation) that he has, but I tried using his and the navigation is a bit confusing after being used to the iPod's click wheel. They were about the same price on their sales, plus I also got a free $25 iTunes card at Best Buy. 
I was also looking at the iPods Nano and Touch. The Apple iPod nano 8 GB Black (3rd Generation) has 1/10th of the capacity of the 80GB Classic, but was only $50 less, and I couldn't fit all of my music/videos on. The Apple iPod touch 16 GB with Software Upgrade, although it has a much larger screen and more interesting features (including wifi access) and has probably enough space (for now, anyways) , costs $150 more!
I never buy electronic equipment (except maybe accessories) from Amazon because of Best Buy's Geek Squad tech support-plus, if you have a problem, you don't have to go through the pain of trying to return it via Amazon. My iPod actually crashed 3 times after I bought it and I all I had to do to replace it each time was just take a 5 minute drive to the Best Buy, talk to the Geek Squad person who checked it out and deemed me worthy of an exchange. After the fourth crash, I just took it to the Apple store, where they told me it wasn't a problem with the iPod, rather with a corrupt file on it, which I couldn't have found out if I just returned it to Amazon. Since then, I deleted that file and it's been working great ever since. 
The earbuds are a pain in the butt to use, but I just got some Sony MDR-Q68LW Clip-on Style Headphone with Retractable Cord. They eliminated the tangling of the ear bud cord. Also, they're more comfortable.
The back can get easily scratched, even from just taking it out of and putting it back into your pocket. This can be easily remedied by purchasing a silicone skin (if you buy a skin made for the 30/60GB fifth generation iPod, you can save a bunch of money, since they're the same size) or you can buy a case for a medium sized camera (like the Lowepro Ridge 10 (Arctic Blue))