ID: B000BK39N4-R1P5BMM77MWCDE-A3L4M8V4LSWM49
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Digital-14-45mm-3-5-5-6-40-150mm
ReviewerID: A3L4M8V4LSWM49
ReviewerName: Vic Lovan "My first SLR"
Date: October 27, 2006
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: I love this camera - My favorite new 'toy' and first SLR
Content:
I've now taken a lot of pictures with this camera.  I bought the kit that has both lenses and have been learning as much as I can and taking as many pictures as possible.  This camera will definitely make the beginner better!
I would recommend getting a fast flash card, I have the type II and would like to have the 3 or 4 for those fast action shots, but for now the one I have works ok.  That's not a reflection on the camera at all, as it can shoot very quickly but I believe the card slows it down.  I have some nephews that can out run my shooting in a couple of shots because of this even when I'm using the sport mode.
I've uploaded a bunch of my shots here on Amazon and there are many others who have done the same and are very good.  You should take a look at as many of them as possible.  The pictures are easy to find right under the picture of the camera and it has a link to "See # customer images".  My favorites are the "Pink Arch", the "spider", and "The Thunderbirds".   Hopefully this will still get posted as it almost has a link in it.  I have a picasa web album page if you want to look for picasaweb dot google dot com / unclebic you should be able to find it.  If not, email me at unclebic at gmail and I'll send you a link.  I'm very happy to share and show off my pictures.  There are a lot of pictures there and more than 99% are from this camera.  I think you'll have to agree that the images this camera takes are fantastic.  I use an epson R200 printer and good glossy paper to print, everyone I've shown them to, gets a look of almost disbelief that a digital camera and a home printer could do such a good job.  
A girl I know recently got married and said that if she'd known how good these came out she would have just got me to do the photos.  I have no experience with such a thing and I would not have done it, but to me that says a lot about how good this camera is.
I don't think you can go wrong with this camera kit.  The only real addition to it other than the compact flash card I would recommend, are a good tripod with a metal mounting head (mine is plastic/nylon and warped this summer), and a polarizer filter (makes the clouds really pop out).