ID: B0002OZXGU-R1M5OK4YJQ0HPU-AZ85AMRA3BIOJ
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-White-M9268LL-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: AZ85AMRA3BIOJ
ReviewerName: Babs "Movie-Fiend"
Date: December 28, 2004
Helpful: 4 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: iPod Changes my image of Apple
Content:
I have always been taught that the Apple is the Anti-Windows, a freezing computer with the whole computer inside the monitor. They were ugly until they came out with the pretty colors in the mid 90's. 
The iPod has changed my outlook because my iPod has not frozen up yet, and i continue to be surprised at the things that it can do. Yes, it is a bit overpriced, and it is only compatible with iTunes. That means mp3's, WMA's, or anything else that is PC-based will not work with the little wonder. In that respect, it can take a long time to covert all of the music on your hard drive into the right format for iTunes. After you have all your music loaded onto your computer from your CD collection,(Simply insert into the CD drive, open iTunes, and press import on the CD screen) it is easy sailing. You can create playlists, listen to music, and rate your tunes. You can also sinc-up your iPod using the included dock. All of your music will go straight into it. This usually takes a few seconds it you haven't added any new CD's, or a few minutes if you have.
My whole CD collection, which takes up a lot of space, only takes up a little more than half of the 40 GB. If you have a small collection, I reccomend the 20 GB rather than an iPod Mini. The Minies are cute, but they cost only $50 less than the 20 GB, and only have 4 GB, which is a 4,000 song difference! Believe me, you will want to be buying new music for your iPod all the time. New tunes only cost $.99 each, or the whole CD for $10. That is cheaper than you could buy at the store, and you can choose which songs you actually want!!
There are some cons, however. It is difficult to figure out from the instructions how to add contacts and calendar dates. Also, the foam earbud covers fall off frequently, and can be difficult to put back on. I suggest investing in the In-Ear headphones from Apple. That will take away this con. 
Overall, I would definately suggest the iPod for any Techie!!