ID: B0000YTYGM-R3IT6WKD0KK9A2-A35CQ1WP35CDHO
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DTC-975BKN-Programmable-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A35CQ1WP35CDHO
ReviewerName: AlwaysL8
Date: December 12, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 1.0
Title: I wanted coffee maker, but instead I got a 'lemon'-ade maker....
Content:
I bought this particular coffee pot in May 2009 for a variety of reasons.  The most important reason was the brand name - I have a Cuisinart food processor, and love it.  The next most important feature for me, was the programmable brewing.  I'm a coffee addict and I like to get out of bed, walk to the kitchen, and sip a nice cup of hot coffee.  The other reasons were the thermal carafe, and the 12-cup size.  We have friends over a lot and we enjoy sharing a cup of coffee.  The size of this coffee maker appealed to me because we wouldn't have to start a fresh pot as soon as we poured 4 mugs of coffee (we use large mugs!!), and the coffee would stay warm without that burned taste that coffee gets when a pot sits on a burner/hot plate.
It worked wonderfully for a few months, but then I began to notice that it was slow to brew.  So I cleaned it (like I had been cleaning all along) but it didn't seem to change anything.  I thought that it was just 'age' - maybe it was just finally 'broke in' (??), and didn't really give it much more thought.  Unfortunately, it continued to get worse to the point that it became a topic of conversation each night when I set the auto timer.  Not only does it take a really long time to brew, it goes through a process of hisses, squeaks, squawks, coughs, and sputters, before it finishes the brew cycle.  
It has continued to get worse, until about a week ago, it was taking approximately 45 minutes to brew, so I changed the auto start time to 4:30 a.m so that it would definitely be ready before my 5:15 alarm time!  I've had this coffee maker now for approximately 8 months, and just this morning it took 1 hour and 13 minutes to brew a full pot of coffee.
Maybe I just got a 'lemon' and when life deals you lemons, you're supposed to make lemonade but I'd prefer my nice cup of coffee in the morning instead!  Suffice it to say, that I'll be purchasing a new coffee maker sooner rather than later, and I'm very disappointed in this particular coffee maker - especially for the price that I paid for it.