ID: B0009HNH2M-R16ZH9N4ZX601I-A3MM40UDJTBGU9
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3590-Nozzle-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A3MM40UDJTBGU9
ReviewerName: Buckeyefan "Buckeyefan"
Date: October 6, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 3.0
Title: Hose is too short
Content:
Well, got the vac today via Fedex from Allergybegone - refurbished. Pretty quick, and well packaged. Box in a box with bubble wrap. The Hoover box was in great shape, and unopened. You could tell Hoover refurbished this. Completely clean, with protective plastic on everything. The tools were new in bags. The wheels and bottom had very light usage, but no scratches on the body, wand or cleaning head.
Took 5-10 minutes to read the directions and assemble. I've never had a canister vac, so this was all new to me. I was impressed with the way people talked about the Miele vacs, so for $72 what the heck.
The light was burned out, and I called Allergybegone who said they'd happily exchange it, or Hoover would send a new bulb. Called Hoover, and without even asking for a receipt or S/N, shipped one out as a courtesy. Great, great customer service on both ends.  Hoover actually had us on record from our last purchase 15 years ago!
Pro's:
Lightweight
Great suction
Lots of filters for allergens
Nice looking and well built - very heavy duty wand and hose
Powerful motor, with an adjustment for power
(it actually slows or raises the motor speed for top suction)
Much nicer than an upright to get under neath tough areas like tables, beds, etc...
Electricity to the head for agitator and light
Simple to turn on and off, and to switch from carpet to bare floor - use your foot to
tap the botton on the canister
Small and stores easily under the coat closet
$72
Con's:
Hose could be longer
Not as efficient or fast as our Wind Tunnel Self Propelled which comes with a longer cord
Small collection bag, will fill up fast.
Bags instead of bagless.
Small tools fall off the wand. Those tools are useless, so I threw them in the box. We have a mini shop vac for that type of cleaning.
 
If you like canister vacs, this is a very solidly built unit for an amazing price. If you don't know and are used to uprights, stick to uprights. For under $100, you can get an amazing upright. For under $50, you get get a very good upright. Just make sure to read reviews.  There's so many quirks from these Chinese made units that a few issues could easily make or break the sale.