ID: B00006F2MI-R3KVUXDRUHB5RS-A1S6JPAZX09QAL
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-600BC-Grind-Brushed-Chrome
ReviewerID: A1S6JPAZX09QAL
ReviewerName: J. Marsh "JJ"
Date: July 25, 2008
Helpful: 0 of 4
Rating: 1.0
Title: Sexy Design, Poor Product
Content:
We've had our Grind and Brew for four years now- and we wonder why we still put up with this thing. Perhaps it's because of it's sleek brushed chrome design... it looks good with our other stainless steel appliances and dark granite counter tops. That would be the one star right there: eye-candy value. 
Here are my problems:
*The well where you fill the water in is dark and deep- I need an overhead light to see inside the dark chasm. 
*Cleaning and drying this baby is a pain. For those of us who love fresh ground coffee, consider it a labor of love. But it gets old, QUICK. I got into a routine to help me out on this: after I pour my cup of coffee, I disassemble the unit and put all the stuff right in the sink or dishwasher, wash it and let it dry. This becomes a real problem when you have guests and need to brew another pot right away. Good luck with that one.
*My unit stopped making 'hot' coffee after about a year. I get lukewarm brew now, so when I add cream, my cup of coffee is COLD. So, to add to my labor-of-love brewing and cleaning chores, I now have to pre-warm my cream so that my coffee is an acceptable temp. Oy vey.
*The grinder stopped consistently grinding coffee. Chunks, rather than grounds = weak coffee. Yum, swill.
*I cannot make a full pot of coffee. For some reason, the unit overflows and I get 12 cups of coffee and grinds all over my counter tops and floor. This is great fun when I'm brewing coffee for dinner guests. It's happened: thrice. Solution? I now have to brew 10 cups (really now, it's not 10 cups no matter how you pour it), clean and dry the unit, and then brew 10 more. Quite a huge undertaking when you really just want to sit and chat with your guests. 
Fresh ground coffee is wonderful, but I just don't feel that this machine is living up to the dream. 
Why do we put up with this machine? Well, we spent a mint on the hopes that it would be Starbucks in our own kitchen. It is, when the stars and planets align... but it's a LOT of work. Honest confession? Many mornings I look at the machine and think, "Nah, the drive to Starbies is easier than tackling that monster." I do believe we are going to "downgrade" to a "regular" coffee maker and leave our freshly ground java to the pros...  for now-