ID: B00081NG1Q-RT26KNC0JABAZ-A1N8W0RAK2RNZJ
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: SEBO-C-3-ET-1-POWER-BRUSH
ReviewerID: A1N8W0RAK2RNZJ
ReviewerName: K. Cumiskey
Date: December 28, 2006
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: Light, quiet, maneuverable and cleans well.
Content:
After years of using my mothers 40 yo hand-me-down Electrolux, I decided it was time to get a "better" vacuum.   I began experimenting with "new technology".  Several years and several trashed vacuum cleaners later, I decided to get serious.  Cheap vacuums don't work or break within the year.  Bagless vacuums can work, but when you empty them, 25 percent of the dust goes right back in the air.  Then you have to clean your dirt AGAIN when you clean the canister or the filters. Uprights just don't clean as well as Canisters.
So after much research I settled on the SEBO.  What a pleasure.  The handle is actually designed to move the way your wrist works.  What a concept.  It is so quiet, I actually thought it wasn't working at first.  You can lay the handle absolutely flat and vacuum all the way under the bed/couch.  You can "dim" the power with a touch of a button right on the handle to go over those fringed edges and throw rugs.  And the canister follows you around on wheels like a little dog.  No dragging it behind you.  The little bumber all the way around lets it go around corners and furniture without damaging everything.  All my walls and furniture had the telltale bumb mark from my big heavy Electrolux canister.  No more.  The small tools are onboard so there is no digging around for them, or going back to find them while cleaning.  And, here is the best, the handle "parks" in the upright position.  No more trying to jam the handle in the back of the closet.  Did I mention it telescopes too?  So you can shrink it to its smallest size, park it right next to the cannister, which also sits upright, all your tools are on board, not floating around with the gloves.  OH, and it REALLY WORKS.  LOVE IT!