ID: B000IWXTY4-RBB256BS319GE-A1P4XD7IORSEFN
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Samsung-GX-10-Digital-18-55mm-Schneider
ReviewerID: A1P4XD7IORSEFN
ReviewerName: J. R. O. Neal "Islidur"
Date: January 3, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Camera
Content:
We purchased this camera as an upgrade for our aged Minolta Dimage 500. The Minolta takes great pictures, but is rather limited as far as creativity and doesn't do well with landscapes. Living in Colorado, my wife and I take a lot of landscape pics and wanted something to accurately capture the beauty we see. 
As with most things, I did a lot of research on DSLR's before we made this purchase. I looked at professional and consumer reviews for Canon, Nikon, Olympus, Sony/Minolta and Pentax/Samsung. I was surprised to find the big names didn't do so well in the mid-range catagory (D40, XTi, A100). From everything I read, you would need to move up to the high end models of the big boys (at over $1000) to come close to the quality of the Pentax/Samsung. So, loaded with what I believed to be good information, we purchased the Samsung over all of the competition because it had the features and reported image quality we were looking for. At the time, the Samsung had a lower price than the Pentax version, so we went with it.
WOW!......It's been over 20 years since I used an SLR, so I'm relearning everything as I go, but I must say I'm just blown away by this camera. Straight out of the box, our Minolta will take better pics, but that can be said of just about every SLR on the market. These are not point & shoot cameras even though they do have auto functions. If you want the superior images, you're going to have to work a bit at it. However, if you take the time to learn and apply the proper techniques, you'll be amazed at what you can create. 
The Samsung offers seemingly infinite possibilities. I'm having fun just shooting objects over and over again at different settings to learn it's capabilities (one of the great things about digital photography, no wasted film). I've taken it to the mountains to test my new skills and have come away with enlargeable and frameable images like I've never taken before. I've also tried to create situations that others have voiced issues with when using the competition, but have not found any situation that can't be captured beautifully with the right settings.
Compared to a P&S, this camera is an extreme amount of work, it's heavy and a lot more expensive.....I just wish I'd bought it sooner. I'll never go back to a P&S again after experiencing the quality of the Samsung (Pentax).