ID: B0000C8VU8-RVEDYEJRQ94YP-A2JFOHC9W629IE
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-6-3MP-Digital-Rebel-Camera
ReviewerID: A2JFOHC9W629IE
ReviewerName: scott_from_dallas
Date: June 19, 2005
Helpful: 22 of 22
Rating: 5.0
Title: Right for amateur moving to SLR; good enough for prosumer
Content:
This review will be really two parts: one for the amateur who has been using point and shoots, or has experience with film based SLRs; the other one for the prosumer or advanced amateur who is either going to digital from film Canon EOS bodies or is getting into pro-level digital shooting on the low end. For the former, the camera is pretty much all you need; for the latter, it is lacking key functionality, but IS workable.
I'm in the latter category. I've done freelance photo work in the past, but not since the digital age began to take off in the late '90s. I've been shooting EOS cameras since the early '90s, and added medium format in the late '90s for wedding and portrait work. I'll be honest: I didn't like the idea of digital at first. Sure, the workflow improvements over film sounded great, but I wasn't seeing the quality of digital vs. film. I still am very much a believer that, at least for prints, especially big prints, film delivers a better overall picture quality. But the quality of digital SLRs since the release of the Digital Rebel is so good, the workflow advantages trump film in all but rare situations. I'll still use my medium format equipment for landscape and outdoor pics I'll print large and frame, but other than a pocket 35mm, I can't see using film much at all in that category, after seeing what I can do with the DReb.
If you are primarily an amateur who is either used to using a Point and Shoot (film or digital) or who has used a consumer film SLR, you'll find this camera easy to operate and use to the extent you used your other cameras. I bought this without the lens, as I have other lenses and the packaged one didn't offer me anything, but for those without Canon glass, you get a surprisingly good lens with the kit. Remember, though, that the lens will only fit on the Digital Rebel, its successors, and possibly the 10/20D line of Canon EOS bodies. 
Shooting is pretty simple. Charge the battery, which is easy -- the charger blinks depending upon its charge. You can look at the charger with the battery on there and see where you are, charge wise. It doesn't take very long to charge the battery fully. Once you have the battery in the camera, you'll need a Compact Flash card. I recommend SanDisk Ultra II cards. You won't experience any write time problems over an above this camera's natural limitations. Then, set the ISO value (100-1600), set either the pre-programed mode on one side of the dial, or the traditional Program/Shutter Priority/Apeture Priority settings on the other side, and you are ready to rock. Remember that unlike many digital cameras, the LED on the back of the camers DOES NOT function as a viewfinder. Aside from displaying various camera options, it shows what you shot after shooting.
If you want to use this as an advanced amateur/pro setup, you can, but know its limitations. I bought this in March and have been shooting all sports with it. I'm using a Canon L USM lens, and have gotten some terrific shots. But I've also missed some that have led me to decide to sell this camera and pick up a 20D. The problem I get into is focusing speed and zones. The 2.5 fps with only a 4 frame burst isn't as big a problem as it sounds. I can still get good action in the burst mode, but admittedly 5 fps with 22 or 25 (20D) bursts is much better. If you want to use this to shoot something like concerts or indoor events, you won't have the same focusing issues. You will have to deal with any flash limitations, but for that information, you will have to read another review. I'm not a camera flash guy under any definition.
The only real problem I've had with this camera is that my shots are consistently underexposed by about .5-.7 of a stop. I shoot exclusively RAW mode (never shot JPG on this one other than first dozen or so shots) and it has been correctable when I convert the images. This is more of a minor irritation, and may not be noticable in JPEG shots. I've seen others using this camera complain of it as well.
This camera is as good of a consumer camera as you will find. If a pro, or semi-pro, can make something function for his or her needs, you know the consumer can get everything they need out of this. I've been shooting since I was 8 or so, have owned umpteen cameras, and this one fills its market niche as good as any of them.