ID: B00006OAM6-RSEZNE9HQZWEQ-A1QW3FWVRKZ984
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: WindChaser-Oscillating-Tabletop-Infrared-Parabolic
ReviewerID: A1QW3FWVRKZ984
ReviewerName: Nemesis
Date: December 5, 2003
Helpful: 15 of 15
Rating: 4.0
Title: Does it seem hot in here or is it just me ?
Content:
Let me get the negatives out of the way first;The day WindChaser decided to design the connection for the body and the head/motor, all their engineers were out playing golf.  There are 4 screws that you use to connect the head assembly to the body, screws that don't seem to be metal, and when you set these screws in the holes you can't get at them to tighten them. I tried a stubby Phillips and about 1" above the screws is a plastic shelf that blocks straight down access. I wound up having to use a Phillips screwdriver bit and some pliers.Secondly when I pulled the WindChaser out of the box the plastic was cheaper and more flimsy that I'd have hoped. However, it's not like I'm going to be playing contact sports with it either so for what it's designed for it works fine.Positives;I really do think this heater rocks. On the low setting you can feel heat from 6' or so away. On the high setting you can feel heat 10' or so away. This thing really puts off the heat !  I've tried it several times on high and have to turn it down after a few minutes.  And the feel of the heat is wonderful.  It feels as if you're in front of a roaring campfire. If you had a tape playing of campfire noise, and this thing in front of you with your eyes closed, you'd swear that it was a real fire.  It's soothing and comforting and just wonderful.The noise.... What noise ?!  When you have it in oscillation mode it's freaky, you expect to hear a fan going, but it's seemingly dead quiet as it pans the room. Very cool.Another thing that has amazed me is that the wire protection frame on the front of the dish...only gets warm. I can't figure it out. Even after it's been on a long time on the low setting I can touch the grate and expect it to be really hot because of the high heat it's emitting and the grate is just warm.  This was a pleasant surprise since I have 3 little kids. After the unit has been on for a while I can touch every part of it and nothing is hot !  Which gives me wonderful peace of mind. To burn yourself you'd have to stick your fingers through the grate.So, in conclusion, I would highly recommend this heater. The silence of it and the feel of the heat coming off the dish is well worth the price of admission.