ID: B000H0IKA0-R1DT0MS5RZK719-A11UQOEOWZJ4XI
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-shuffle-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A11UQOEOWZJ4XI
ReviewerName: Cody McCallister "cody_mac"
Date: December 21, 2006
Helpful: 21 of 23
Rating: 5.0
Title: perfect for many reasons
Content:
PROS: It's size and weight make it almost nonexistant. For running, working out, etc., I haven't found a better choice, and just taking it along with you is effortless. The clip is also very strong. I don't see it ever slipping off a piece of clothing. The new aluminum design makes this a seemingly durable product and very pleasing to look at. It really does go with anything. The storage and battery life are also just right. I listened to my shuffle for a week straight before it needed a charge (obviously it wasn't non-stop). 12 hours is plenty. Plus, you can shuffle the songs or play them in order. As long as you make playlists you like and/or only keep good music in your library the absense of a screen is no big deal. I gladly give it up for the better weight and size. Docking and charging are easy, and iTunes is elementary to use. I recommend this to anyone. A good first player, an absolute perfect second player.
CONS: There are a couple minor ones. The only way to charge the player right out of the box is through your USB port. There isn't an AC adapter included. Apple sells them for $30-$40 bucks, yeah right, but I bought an off brand from Amazon for $0.75 plus shipping. I know it's hard to trust an expensive iPod to an off brand, but the reviews of the charger sound good so far. The included headphones aren't stellar. You have to get used to them or they make your ears a little soar once in a while, and the sound quality is alright. The cord length is perfect tho and they do look sweet, so maybe just get a different pair sometime in the future. For those of you who don't like iTunes I don't think you can use anything else. Sorry. Can't say I've really tried, but Apple is usually pretty tight about it. I got used to it. Overall, these minor flaws shouldn't discourage you from the player. It really is as cool as it looks, and it works perfectly.
SIDE THOUGHTS: Make sure you have USB 2.0. It's not a big deal, but I went from 20 minute transfers to 3 minute transfers. You can get adapters for your laptop, and PCs are even easier. You don't have to worry about charging it at off times. The make of the battery makes it possible to charge whenever, whether fully dead or not, without losing capacity. Just plug it in every day or so and you'll never run out of juice. The Apple site has more info on the batteries if you're curious. The batteries can even be replaced and are covered for the first year. Because it's a flash memory player, you needn't worry about skipping or breaking hard drive disks. Although real music junkies say flash memory doesn't have the same sound quality (you won't tell a difference). 
Basically, I LOVE IT. Just think of it as your own personal radio station. You never know what's coming up next (unless it's out of shuffle mode), but you know it'll be a song you like. If not, just skip it. Buy it. It's a good buy.