ID: B0000A0VA9-R3OC1KFN1ITLPA-A3NGOG8Z78AZSD
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Eureka-Compact-Canister-Vacuum-Yellow
ReviewerID: A3NGOG8Z78AZSD
ReviewerName: Edward Barnett
Date: November 16, 2008
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent for hard floors, light use -- not for carpet, large areas
Content:
I purchased this vacuum to replace another small Eureka canister vacuum that finally quit working after 21 years.  I was a bit concerned about the mixed reviews (some very positive, some very negative), but this model seemed to have the features I was looking for, so I took the plunge.  I've been using the Eureka 972B for about a year now, and I've found that it does some things extremely well, and others very poorly, which probably accounts for the mixed reviews.  Here's a summary of my experience:
- The 972B excels at quick cleanups of hard floors.  The vacuum head is cleverly designed and almost seems to float over the floor -- it swivels smoothly and is very easy to maneuver.  I've had no problem with the hose/wand coming detached (a common complaint on other models), the suction is quite strong, and the automatic cord wind-up is very slick.  The canister part of the vacuum maneuvers much better than my previous Eureka -- the wheel design allows it to move with a simple tug, and it's not prone to tipping.
- The dust bag is very small -- about a quarter the size of the bag on my old Eureka, despite the fact that the overall machine is the same size.  This is fine for light vacuuming, but it will fill very quickly if you are vacuuming high-volume stuff (e.g., lots of pet hair).
- The 972B does an excellent job of cleaning hard floors (vinyl, hardwood, tile).  It does not perform well on carpet, though, since the head does not have a beater bar.  Also, fuzz from the carpet seems to fill the small dust bag very quickly.
In a nutshell, I'm delighted with this Eureka for light cleaning of hard floors.  I would not use it on carpet, though, and it doesn't have the bag capacity to do "high-volume" cleaning.  If you have a small home, with little carpeting and no pets, it's great; if you have a larger home with lots of carpet and long-haired pets, this small vacuum won't be up to the challenge.  For my cleaning needs, it's been terrific -- just what I needed, and nothing more, at a good price.