ID: B000EPNB52-R3V3JC8VVI27MP-A345Q2S6XBN02E
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-nano-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A345Q2S6XBN02E
ReviewerName: Richard Keith
Date: November 27, 2006
Helpful: 11 of 14
Rating: 4.0
Title: Upgrade from Ipod Mini to Nano
Content:
This review is for users who, like me, want to upgrade to the Ipod Nano 2nd generation after using another Ipod product which required installation of ITunes on your computer. (If this Nano is your first Ipod purchase, you can skip to the last part of this review for comments on the Working Nano.)  In my case, I had a 4 gig 1st generation Ipod Mini that I used for about 18 months and then the battery life was down to about 1 hour.  I was faced with sending in the Mini to get a new battery installed (about $70) or getting a new Ipod.  I chose the latter, and got this 8 gig Nano with an alleged 24-hour battery life.
 
Apple support hasn't caught up with this product -- at least in terms of the upgrade process. The small booklet that comes with the Nano is perhaps useful only if you don't have ITunes on your computer. There is a 60-page manual for the Nano that you can download from the Apple website that is somewhat useful, but does not clearly address the situation of using two Ipods on one computer account with one ITunes Library.  I initially hooked my Nano up to my PC, hoping to download onto it all the tunes I had in my ITunes library for my Mini.  Well, not so easy. Computer freeze, brain freeze, and many resets of the Nano.  I had read another review here about how someone just plugged in their Nano and it input all their ITunes library.  This did not work for me.  Unaided by anything I could find on the Apple website, I had to find out how to get my ITunes music on my Nano by trial and error.
   
I found that ITunes is specificly dedicated to your first Ipod product (Ipod One).  To use another Ipod product, such as using this Nano (IPod Two) on the same computer as your Mini, and to take advantage of the ITunes Music library you accumulated for Ipod One, you have to do several things: 1) RESTART your computer each time between hooking your Ipod One and Ipod Two, 2) set your Ipod Two (Nano) to Manual Download.  3) Once your Nano shows up on ITunes, Drag a group of tunes (in clusters of no more than 20 at first, then up to 40) over to the Ipod Nano icon - DON"T DRAG PLAYLISTS!!.  The tunes should start loading. 4) Once you have dragged groups of tunes  to your Nano icon and have all your tunes on the Nano that you want, THEN drag your playlists up to the Nano icon.  This may seem redundant, but hear me now and believe me later: I COULD NOT DRAG PLAYLISTS TO MY NANO without first directly loading in (dragging over) the tunes from ITunes.  Maybe this is just me, maybe it's a PC thing, I don't know.  I am just telling you what worked for me.
What I have not told you about are the 12+ hours I spent figuring out the foregoing.  During these hours, my computer froze every time I tried to "auto input" tunes to the Nano or "sync" my Nano to the ITunes library and every time I tried to download a playlist without first loading the tunes from ITunes. I had to "restore" the Nano several times.  The one bit of advice Apple provided that was useful was to switch USB ports if you have trouble restoring your Nano to factory settings.  And be patient.  It may take up to 5 minutes for a seemingly frozen process to suddenly complete itself.  This is likely a PC thing.
OK, now that that's out of the way, here's a review of the Working Nano.  It is small, it is tiny.  If you lose it, it will be gone.  I walk my dog at night and listen to tunes.  I once lost my Mini in the grass but was able to find it because of the size and bright color.  If you lose the black Nano in the dark, good night.  I don't know how you could possibly find it unless it was in a place that had a light background and you had significant light.  Apple should have provided some kind of basic clip-on attachment to help you secure the Nano.  It doesn't come with anything but earbuds, a connecting cord to the computer and a small stand to hold the Nano upright on your desk.
The placement of the input jack for the headphones is awkward.  It is on the bottom.  So the Nano will naturally hang upside-down after you plug in your `phones, which will probably weigh more than the Nano.  Apple should have configured this differently.
 
The screen seems brighter, mostly because the lettering is darker.  The battery does last a long time - I can vouch for 6 hours playing time with barely a dent in the battery icon.   The music quality seems clearer, with better stereophonic effect, as opposed to the Mini.
So this is one neat little product.  You just have to figure out how to get your ITunes music library into it and then how not to lose it.  I hope the tips above are helpful.