ID: B0002ZSFU0-R343TM00HILLLR-A2DIDFFTI9YMXQ
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Sanyo-SC-Y120-Powerboy-Canister-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A2DIDFFTI9YMXQ
ReviewerName: N. Wheeler
Date: February 3, 2007
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Five stars at this price point.
Content:
Pros
*  Extremely light weight - you can actually lift it in one hand while you vacuum high up book shelves
*  Powerful
*  Adjustable suction
*  Suction is adjustable (from full-bore to off) through hand-accesible slider
*  Can act similar to a "bagless" vacuum, if you use the reusable cloth bag (three paper bags are included but I haven't used)
*  Beater brush, although unpowered, does an excellent job on (short pile) carpets
*  Vents not only though the back, but also through the two large wheels (!)
*  Cord retracts via button-press
*  Small
*  Great looking - gray "pearl" finish with green accents
*  Wire reinforced hose - you can step on it
*  Feels well made
Cons
*  Bag does not form a perfect seal, so dust can get around and impinge on filter.  I have been using a Dust Buster to vacuum out the bag area and the filter.
*  Lacks a small-size attachment for vacuuming in small rooms/ constricted spaces
*  Attachments / wand can come apart if not tightly pressed together - probably the cheapest element of the design
*  Attachments are mounted on wand, which is patently ridiculous
*  Adjustable suction slider rotates around wand - there may be a good reason for this, but it is annoying
Comments
*  Although it was not immediately obvious, the brush attachment swivels from an oblique angle to a right angle, so you can vacuum horizontal surfaces over your head.
*  I think someone might have commented that you can't shorten the wand; if so, this is wrong.  The attachment insertion pieces taper.
*  The wand-mounted attachment holder can be easily unscrewed from the wand, which is certainly what I did.  A minus of doing so is that you can no longer mount the wand on the cannister when not in use.
All in all, this is one of my favotire purchases of late.  I had seen the name Sanyo before but never purchased anything by the company.  This is worlds different from the heavy, clunky cannister I had been using.
In summary:  between this, my Roomba Red, a Dust Buster, and a Dirt Devil cordless stick vac, I have everthing I need to do all the vacuuming my wife won't, all for much, much less than one of the "deluxe" uprights.