ID: B000IHN89A-RT1WXYMTPPESL-A1TB6JOLP2Z8ZU
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-Digital-Reduction-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A1TB6JOLP2Z8ZU
ReviewerName: TraVinh
Date: January 2, 2008
Helpful: 7 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: 5 Stars all the way !!!
Content:
I just write this review for people who want to get into DSLR like me a month ago. For years, I just held the camera then point and shoot, didn't even know anything about the important of aperture, shutter speed and ISO. I bought a Canon S3 IS as planning to take pictures of my daughter birthday party to come, and then the S3 went half dead just after 2 weeks with rarely used. I went to look for another camera and asked for opinions on various forums, then there were some advises that I should go for a DSLR camera. I was kind afraid of my lacking knowledge in photography that could end up in getting a camera, and then don't know how to use it. But out of curiosity, I went and researched then compared specs, features, reviews, and hand feels from various models of Olympus, Sony, Canon, and Nikon; all except the Pentaxes - non available in stores in my area. But all the cameras I'd tried, non gave me a satisfaction feel in my hand, then I spent more time in researching into the Pentaxes. Finally I narrowed down to the K10D. Because of the value compared to its features plus all the good reviews, I decided to give it a try, thinking of if it wouldn't fit well in my hand then as the other models from other brands, and may be after a year or so I may get a hang of it (being DSLR). So I bought it without seeing it in real life. 
To my surprise, the K10D arrived and the first time I held it in my right hand, it gave me a comfortably fit. But when looked at it with the mounted lens, and all the buttons and controls and the thick User Manual, I felt intimidated (lol). In two days without taking a shot (I was afraid of messing things up and couldn't go back), just reading the Magic Lantern and Understanding Exposure. Those books I had in the same order with the K10D. 
Later after taking shots, and learned and adjusted, I learned more and more about it, and day after day I saw my improvement considerably, thus I gained more confident in taking pictures with it.
Now, just after one month of owning it, I have taken quite a few so nice portraits of my kids with some used manual primes which I got from Ebay (not close to $100 each). No way I go back to P&S again, and no way I take my kids to studio to get portraiture pictures taken.
I now have acquired quite a few lenses and found out that the problem in low light slow focusing, usualy varies with which lens is using. Also there's some misunderstanding of the K10D's JPEG being not sharp. Actualy, because in default, its JPEG output is set to Natural; if you want to have your JPEG pics look sharp, vivid, and punchy, just change from Natural to Bright mode and adjust the Saturation, Sharpness, and Contrast to suit your liking. But the best is still in RAW.
My conclusion is: -If you want to enter DSLR world. This K10D is the best for your money, and it's not too hard to master. You will love it.
(Sorry for my not good English)