ID: B000J6CDL4-RBDN6P1VG60EB-AKT8TGIT6VVZ5
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Leica-DIGILUX-Digital-14-50mm-Stabilization
ReviewerID: AKT8TGIT6VVZ5
ReviewerName: John Kwok
Date: December 24, 2006
Helpful: 15 of 19
Rating: 5.0
Title: Impressive, But Expensive, Leica Entry in Four Thirds Digital SLR Photography
Content:
Recently I read a most impressive review of this digital SLR camera and its zoom lens in the pages of Popular Photography. But this isn't the sole reason why I would consider purchasing one. I've been fortunate to handle the camera and lens a few times lately, and have been quite impressed with how well this camera handles. It truly feels more like an overgrown 35mm Leica rangefinder camera than a digital SLR, well-balanced with both hands gripping onto the camera and lens. Indeed, it it truly designed as a digital SLR for the active photographer interested in photographing moving objects, judging from its relatively narrow ISO range from 100 to 1600 (This is a range suited ideally for the sports or other action-oriented photographer.). And yet how well this camera handles isn't my best reason for getting one. Optically its performance is absolutely stellar, at least at lower ISO speeds, yielding crisp images with superb contrast and resolution (The Leica D 14-50mm f2.8-3.5 ASPH lens yielded a performance, that according to Popular Photography, was outstanding, and much better than other digital SLR zoom lenses of similar focal lengths, due not only to its superb Leica-designed optical formula, but also to its digital imaging stabilizer.). 
With the Leica Digilux 3, Leica - and its partner Panasonic - have officially become the latest member of the digital four-thirds system pioneered by Sigma and embraced too by Olympus (EDITORIAL NOTE: I erred in assuming that Sigma had pioneered the digital four-thirds system, which the comment (see below) by another customer notes correctly. However, contrary to what he has written, it was developed jointly by both Kodak and Olympus. I have had several opportunities to use this camera and have been quite impressed with its performance.). This means that potential users of the Leica Digilux 3 can use too superb lenses made by both firms, most notably the Olympus 50mm f2 macro lens. Both Leica and Panasonic have promised additional Leica lenses for its four-thirds digital SLRs (The term "four-thirds" refers to the image ratio that's obtainable from the camera's digital imaging sensor; other image formats, including the standard three two from 35mm photography are also available.); I have no doubt that optically their performances will be second to none. And yet, the unanswered question is whether this new digital four thirds SLR camera and its Leica-designed zoom lens are well worth the expense in acquiring them. I think the answer is a most definite yes if you are seeking the highest possible optical quality from a four-thirds digital SLR.