ID: B000FMZE7W-R241PBTNF61R0P-A3M4Z02IUW3BRU
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-White
ReviewerID: A3M4Z02IUW3BRU
ReviewerName: Douglas E. Ferrer D. "Douglas"
Date: January 18, 2007
Helpful: 6 of 11
Rating: 4.0
Title: GREAT!!!.... Ipod killer??? not yet I think
Content:
I really love this mp3 player, it has all you need for play your media files. Easy to manage and cool interface. You can customize your wallpaper and in playback you see the album artwork on the background. The video quality is good on its wide screen. Personally I don't like the touch-wheel of the ipod, you have to get used to it to get more accurate. With the bottoms of Zune player you have better control. 
Ipod killer??? not yet I think. Yeah is bigger than the ipod (not to much but is noticeable), heavier??? I don't notice it. Take knowledge that it has a bigger screen and built in Wi-fi. Is a new product, and don't expect too much accessories out there as the ipod has, but there are some cool stuff. As all Mp3 players, the earphones sucks, maybe you want to buy a better pair. Battery life???, is good about 4 hours of mp3 listening (I haven't tested with video playback yet, but obviously expect much less). I'm using the 14 day free trial Zune pass and is really good, all you can download, and if you want to play the music after the period ends you pay the affordable monthly fee of 14.99 bucks (for all you can eat???, I think is a good deal), I have found that 90% of the music is eligible to download without paying it (you have to pay some of them  or are not available).
There are some downs I notice with Zune. The Wi-fi is restrictive, no other than play music, pictures and videos features (games, clock, contacts, etc), and no playsforsure compatibility (ironic isn't it???). Hopefully Microsoft will release some firmwares updates on the future regarding of this issues.
Overall I think is a good gadget and I don't regret buying it. There is no point of fighting between the Ipod and Zune as many apple lovers do, so keep in mind you want to play your favorite media after all.