ID: B000OK0YWK-R1DKG2XM0YUY1R-A3NW1BYAGE5XSH
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Red
ReviewerID: A3NW1BYAGE5XSH
ReviewerName: John OBrien "John D O'Brien, PMP"
Date: January 13, 2007
Helpful: 25 of 32
Rating: 4.0
Title: Don't believe the haters.
Content:
Don't believe the haters, this a good, (although not spectacular), product. I got this for Christmas and wanted to give a thorough try before reviewing it. So far, it has been a good product that has performed exactly as advertised. 
To start, I have never owned an IPOD, although I have bought 2 for my wife, (and she loves them), but I cannot personally see how the Apple product differs that significantly after discussing and comparing the items with my wife. The Zune has taken almost every postive Apple innovation and incorporated it into the Zune. The only real difference is the WiFi, (which I shut off immediately), that I have no interest in other than if I needed to interface with my home wireless network. 
I have my entire CD collection on the device and have subscribed to the Zune music service enabling me to sample and add to my music collection. I had no problems with software setup, have experienced no issues with playback, syncing, etc. If you are reasonably computer literate, the Zune should pose no great hurdles for the average user. 
I have especially liked the way the device integrates seamlessly into my wireless network, Xbox 360, and Windows Media Center software.
I agree with the complaints about battery life. Turning off the WiFi helps, but you can also get the Belkin "TunePower" accessory to significantly increase usage time, although at significantly increased cost. 
Bottom line, could the Zune be better? Yes, but then again, (gasp, here comes what some may consider sacrilege), so could the Ipod. Basically, it just comes down to the vagaries of personal preference and what you are comfortable with. If you are like me, a first time high end buyer with a focus on Windows PC and Windows Media Player Experience, the Zune should definitely be considered a viable option.
Don't believe all of the hysterical, biased reviews that loudly proclaim how terrible this product is. These extremist views, (as are most others- no matter the subject), are not based on facts but emotions. You are better off making a decision and a purchase based on solid, well reasoned information.