ID: B00004R936-RR5AJSJVSXVPE-ARWG51E0Q7980
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Melitta-MEMB1B-10-Cup-Coffeemaker-Black
ReviewerID: ARWG51E0Q7980
ReviewerName: William F. Hungate Jr.
Date: August 15, 2001
Helpful: 68 of 69
Rating: 4.0
Title: Better than Capresso!
Content:
After 2 years with the Capresso Coffee Team grind and brew unit, which made a fine cup of coffee, we switched to the Melitta Mill and Brew.  Why?  Well, the Capresso has this burr grinder they tout highly.  It turns out to be the Achilles Heel of the unit, since it clogs and twice stopped completely when a hard bean got stuck in it.  We sent it back to Capresso twice, at $45.00 plus shipping (they paid return shipping) each time.  Then, recently, the grinder started grinding all by itself at odd times and wouldn't shut off unless we pulled the plug.  I heard it running in the early morning and feared it would overheat and start a fire.  That was the 3rd strike, and out.I researched here at Amazon for other grind and brew machines and discovered the Miletta Mill and Brew.  Never knew they had consumer machines.  Since we had friends who had the Cuisinart and didn't particularly like it...too noisy and messy...we ruled it out and decided to try the Melitta.  I was sceptical that a machine less than half the price of the Capresso could be any good.  My snobbishness proved to be unfounded.  The Melitta is doing an excellent job so far.  I had to adjust the bean volume slightly, but it is now giving us brewed coffee that tastes as good as we had with the Capresso.  Then we discovered the other niceties of the Miletta. There is no problem using oily beans...the grinder is inside the filter basket, therefore no chute to clog...very clever.  Also, unlike the Capresso, there is no coffee &quot;dust&quot; clinging to the outside of the machine and on the countertop after the beans are ground.  And, amazingly, the carafe doesn't drip when you pour.  We were used to having paper towels under the Capresso and on the counter, to help with the debris and drips.  No more!  The Melitta just sits there, sleak and shiny and clean.  It's about a third smaller than the Capresso, in &quot;footprint&quot; on the counter.  Also, it is about half as loud when grinding. Somebody got this thing right! Negatives?  Cleaning the filter basket is not quite as easy as was the Capresso.  It's not difficult, but takes about 20 seconds longer to rinse the grinds out.  Not a big deal, just a difference you might notice coming from the Capresso.Why not 5 stars?  I have only had this machine a couple weeks. I believe duration should be a factor in these ratings, so I withheld the 5th star for now.  By the way, another poster said she was unable to get a replacement carafe.  I called Miletta to get a back-up carafe and was able to order one with no problem.  I even pointed out that someone said they couldn't get one and the customer service person couldn't understand that.  She said they have always carried them and other parts, such as the filter basket. Try again.