ID: B00005IBX9-R23CPQMYO5GQKB-A8D8DCL7OQ2NH
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1200-Central-Coffeemaker-Stainless
ReviewerID: A8D8DCL7OQ2NH
ReviewerName: Fritz Wang "The Handyman"
Date: February 20, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Eureka! A well designed coffee maker.
Content:
I bought this Cuisinart to replace a Black & Decker model that I had had for only a month and a half.  I researched online and physically looked at a bunch of coffee makers for 2 weeks before buying this Cuisinart - I was very frustrated with my B&D purchase and wanted to avoid all of its shortcomings.
In contrast to the B&D, 4 points go the the Cuisinart:  (1)The Cuisinart's caraf doesn't dribble or spill at all.  The pop off lid is a little less user friendly than the thumb action lift up, but I don't mind it.  (2) The caraf can move into or out of the coffee maker at any time with ease.  On the B&D, I had to set up the water, filter, and coffee in a very specific order because I could not put the caraf into the coffee maker unless the top lid was clicked shut.  (3)Moisture condensation on the lid does not drip down the back of the coffee maker when I open it.  (4) The lid and shower head do not get in the way of the caraf when I am pouring the water in.  The gold permanent filter came with my Cuisinart.  I like having the choice to use it or disposable filters.  The controls are not super intuitive, but perfectly clear after glancing through the users manual.
I have used my Cuisinart for a little over 2 weeks now.  I have not found the small opening for the water to be a problem.  I think if you need to save 15 seconds pouring water in your coffee maker, you should buy one that keeps the water heated all the time.  The Cuisinart does have an audible alarm for various things, including 5 beeps for when it's done brewing.  I don't think the beeps are much louder than the other noises the coffee maker normally makes.  Maybe Cuisinart read the reviews and toned it down.  Or maybe the reviewer shouldn't use the coffee maker in the bedroom.  I have used both the gold permanent filter and paper filters for 8 cups of coffee per brew and my bean grinder set on "Drip" and have not had any problems with overflowing.  There is no water level indicator on the outside of the coffee maker, but there is one on the inside of the reservoir.  This is not terribly helpfull since you have to be able to look straight down in to the coffee maker.  Since I do not use a water hose to fill my coffee maker, I have not found this to be a problem.  I fill the caraf to 8 cups or whatever and pour it in.  The amount of water that evaporates while I move from the sink to the coffee maker is negligable.  As for the reviews that say it simply stops working, well that remains to be seen in 4 to 12 months.  If it happens, I'll update this review.