ID: B00063ZVK0-R1J81VNOUALTXM-
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Vornado-EH1-0028-06-Digital-Vortex-Heater
ReviewerID: 
ReviewerName: 
Date: February 27, 2003
Helpful: 28 of 29
Rating: 5.0
Title: It's hard to believe how well this heater works...
Content:
We just moved into a house with a 300+ square foot sun room that is unheated except through a couple of windows and a door through to the house. It was very cold in this room initially, so much so that you couldn't do anything in winter without additional heating. So I thought I'd try a DVH heater to see if it would do the job rather than either ducting into the room or installing baseboard heat. When I got the unit, I was extremely skeptical. It's very small and it's very light, and it doesn't look like it will do anything at all. Well, it's just above zero outside as I write this, and I'm in my sun room that is evenly heated to 70 degrees. And I saved hundreds of dollars over the alternatives.(I purchased the DVH over any other unit because it has a temperature control in degrees, while most [all] other similar units make you guess instead of setting the exact temperature.)In addition to heating the room, it is also so quiet that I can have it sitting right next to me without it bothering me in the least. And the cord and the unit stay cool, which is a big consideration with our two little dogs running into it. You can actually put your hand against the front of the heater when it's going full blast on high power and it's only warm, not hot.The controls are simple also. You press the power switch, set the temperature that you want, and then select whether to use high or low power. And then you're done, you just turn it on or off from that point forward. It then displays the power setting, the room temperature, and the desired temperature continually on the top of the unit.Obviously, I'm very happy with the DVH and I highly recommend it to anyone. I do want to add that it would probably have taken two of the units to completely heat the room to a continuous 70 degrees if it was totally unheated, but it's still much better than the alternatives.