ID: B000BY52NK-R3TX6SI6DD8E2G-A3UEB7DUYC67ZW
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D200-10-2MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: A3UEB7DUYC67ZW
ReviewerName: C. Crawford "The Constant Amatuer"
Date: February 27, 2007
Helpful: 30 of 47
Rating: 5.0
Title: a competant symbol of artistic seriousness
Content:
I think the point a lot of people are not mentioning about the d200 is quite obvious.  Let me be the first to say that the main reason I bought the d200 over the d80 was to increase my credibility and prestige as an amateur photographer, make other photographers jealous of my kit, and to brag about the obscene amount of money I spend on camera equipment while my co-workers can't even pay their rent.  I bought the grip because I thought it looked really cool, and it increased the size and visibility of my camera to other people.  The question that really sold me on the d200 was: will strangers that I might want to photograph be more likely to say yes standing on the other side of a d80 or a d200?  Will people have less doubts about me holding this thing opposed to a smaller model?  Which one looks cooler?
If I was completely loaded would I buy the D2Xs? Without a second thought.
Of course I talked to a lot of camera people making minimum wage hoping that they would have some technical insight about purchasing a Nikon or other camera.  Of course they let me down and said a lot of bogus things to me most saying something like: "the d200 is way to much camera for me."  None of them knew how to change the exposure settings, they were contented with the wheel and "child mode," on top of the d80 and recited this to me several times as if I looked like a soccer mom.  As usual I was offended by the human experience of buying in the real world, especially the atrocious mark up of several hundred dollars, I refused to help pay those employees wages.  The breaking point I think was the time an associate instructed me to buy one camera over the other because, "when she dropped this camera it broke and the other one didn't."  So I turned to the internet where I only have to say hi to the UPS man as he leaves. 
I studied and studied all things technical, sometimes just staring at pictures of cameras for long periods of time without blinking.  I poured over thousands of photographs taken by all kinds of cameras and amassed a photographic library while I decided.  Basically I went way overboard and let the decision of buying a camera engulf my life until I was dreaming about it.
So one night I just bought the d200 after being on the fence over the d80 or the d200.  And after two days it arrived and I was impressed with it.  The thing is literally a cold hard photographic machine.
After being broken in on the d50 I was firstly impressed with the size, and then secondly all of the dials and switches to change things that I used to have to dig through the menu to get to.  Thirdly I liked the blazing fast 2 frame rate.
When I go out at night I snap the 50mm f/1.8 onto it and crank the iso up.  A lot of people in the forms were complaining about the noise in the high iso of the d200 but I thought it was fine.  I feel most people from that camp want perfect clarity all the way up into the highest isos but I think that is artistically limiting.  I read one scathing review written by a veteran film user saying that basically high iso in digital has a lot less graininess than film basically saying that the d200 is a step up but some people still want to complain.  As far as the d200 goes versus the d50 at iso 1600 it is leaps and bounds better in my opinion.  The noise is way reduced without NR and there isn't that pixel chunkiness I found in the d50 at high isos.
Another thing that stands out on the d200 is the enhanced colors.  In reality the ultra vivid setting on the d200 makes a lot of things look sort of fake, but it does make people who don't have a sun tan look like they have one which is a plus in my opinion.  It can make your dull green lawn look like a lush paradise, skies are ultra blue, and reds are spectacular.  I remember when I used the d50 I would steer away from photographing violets and red roses because it would blow them out, not so with the d200.  For some reason coming from point and shoot it always used to annoy my that the d50 didn't have b&w or sepia.  The d200 has b&w but no sepia.  The nerds in the forums would just say, "use cs2, or a photo editor," but I say no because I should be able to do everything in camera.
The viewfinder is so awesome.  I literally hated electronic viewfinders and the d50's viewfinder was so small that it hindered my framing at times.  The d200 has a big bright viewfinder and a huge lcd that sucks down batteries like nothing.  As far as my evolution goes in photography sometimes I feel like I can literally climb into the viewfinder because its so big compared to what I was used to.  
Like I said the grip is awesome and I really like it.  I kind of like having as many accessories as possible and that kind of steered me away from the D2Xs into the d200.  Watching the percentage marks count down as the batteries drain is always fun.  The best thing about the d200 is little things like that because they make me feel like I have greater control over my pictures because I know exactly how many I can take.
In conclusion buy the d200 over the d80 I am really happy with it and I am not happy with anything.  If you're having trouble considering what you want photographically try and pull yourself away from forums and outside sources and really consider what got you into photography in the first place and where you intend to go with it, I think that is the important part.  Advertising and gear collecting never made anyone a better artist.