ID: B000EPLP3C-RVMT80DEPYHKP-A2ZUOOL9DOA1JI
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A2ZUOOL9DOA1JI
ReviewerName: Holly Golightly
Date: November 21, 2006
Helpful: 33 of 45
Rating: 3.0
Title: Zune Raises the Stakes
Content:
I fly several times a week, so portable entertainment is a must for me. I bought the black Zune; white's a summer color and brown just doesn't go with enough of my wardrobe. But, color is not important - all Zunes are created equal. I won't go into the elegant packaging, which felt very reminiscent of opening my year old iPod. I hope you didn't think I would write a review of the Zune without comparing the two. I'm typing it in Word on the plane, so it may be long.
Fresh out of the box, the Zune felt warm, as in comfortable. Its blue edges glowed in all their double-shot finish beauty. The next thing I noticed was its size. It's noticeably heavier than my iPod, and slightly too big for my dainty hands. I guess that's the price of a bigger screen, which is not as grainy as reviews made it out to be - though it's not as crisp as my iPod side by side.  Holding them up together, I can use the Zune a little bit further from my face when viewing, an inch or two. But honestly, neither of them is comfortable enough to hold for too long. The iPod definitely wins when it comes to watching for long periods but I like the sideways viewing of the Zune. I'll take them both on flights now in case one dies, but I usually use my laptop on flights over an hour anyway. 
I have a photo of my doggie set as my background. It's a nice feature but I don't see it much since the players are always in my bag on shuffle or playing a video. I know the more I view it, the more the battery dies.
Of the two, my iPod has got more use over the last five days. I'm a huge fan of podcasts like National Geographic's Atmosphere, Science Friday and NPR. The Zune menu doesn't have a podcast selection and it doesn't support podcasts that well. I don't think any company should make a player without podcasts. As a frequent traveler, they're my news and entertainment. I'm not used to having to go find my podcasts. They've always been right there on iTunes.  After I figured out how to download a few audio podcasts manually, I realized it's not worth the effort.  No wonder people say iPod made podcasts accessible to the world.  If this is what it was like before iTunes managed podcasts, I would have never spent the time to discover them. I was troubled several times when I had to search for where I left off in the middle of a podcast, apparently the Zune doesn't store that information if you stop and listen to some music. I started pausing my Zune and switching to the iPod to avoid losing my place. Now I don't use it for podcasts at all.
Some of my videos were automatically transferred, but my Good Eats episodes stayed behind. It's a shame; those were my favorite time passers and I'm behind by about a hundred episodes. Alton Brown is so nerd-cute. They don't play on my iPod either though. But, I was hoping I could view them somewhere other than the laptop. After I checked, many more of my videos had not got transferred. I don't know why. I guess it won't matter when people legally buy their videos from the Zune Store, but Zune doesn't have them yet.
Then there's listening to music.  I knew my iTunes purchased songs wouldn't convert but I don't plan on getting rid of my iPod anyway. The first thing I noticed was how easy it was to navigate from albums to artists to genres to songs.  The Zune navigation is great. This is the first thing I hope Apple learns from Zune. There's no reason to back all the way out to the main menu to switch from songs to albums. Shuffling was a breeze; it's only a click away. I don't know why iPod doesn't use the center button more effectively. Another beauty was discovered in album view. The Zune shows tiny album art right beside the album name.  I disabled album art on my iPod because all the storage is filled with video, but I know it doesn't have this tiny album art feature. I'll probably disable them on my Zune if I can. The only problem I had with music was that when listening to music I was constantly changing the volume. I think the iPod takes care of this so that all songs are equally loud.
I keep my wireless off because I'm afraid I'll forget to do it on the plane. I don't know what it will do, but I'm not going to be the one who does it. I've also read wireless off will give me more battery life. The Zune seems to last at least an hour less than my iPod but I've never timed them. I don't think many people would like my music; that's why I got an iPod in the first place. So, without sharing, I don't really have a use for the wireless. As I mentioned, I always have the wireless off so nobody would see my Zune anyway.  Not that I was going to start talking to people in the airports.
The Zune Store just doesn't compare to iTunes. I've only looked around but it doesn't seem as easy or well organized.  Maybe I've just used iTunes too much. I was going to buy a song to try it out but I had to advance pay with Zune Pass. So I'll stick with iTunes for now. I can't look at it from up here, so I won't comment.
From what I've read there is no way to store documents on the Zune, which I do with 1 gigabyte of my iPod. Most of them are on my company laptop because they're confidential and our IT department said iTunes screen lock wasn't secure enough. I also can't sync Microsoft Outlook with my Microsoft Zune, weird. I find that strange since my Outlook calendar and contacts sync with my Apple iPod. Because of that, my Zune has no contacts or appointments on it.  I guess it's not required but I don't always have my laptop and have become quite used to checking my iPod for contacts, flight times, and other information.
I think my favorite feature of the Zune is tagging. I can tag any song so that I can do something to it later - usually delete it. Sometimes on my iPod I want to add the song to a different playlist, like the one I use for waking up.  All those songs start off soft and pick up the intensity slowly - a great way to wake up. I can't tag on iPod so I have to use the menu to find the song and hold the center button to add it to the iPod's to-go playlist. Tagging on the iPod takes two clicks of the center button. This is another thing Apple could make easier.
Overall I like my Zune, but it just doesn't do enough to replace my iPod. Actually, not near enough as it's missing everything I've come to rely on. The two will work together for the foreseeable future unless I decide to give the Zune to my nephew. This desire to write a Zune review has sparked me to write one for my iPod as well. I'm rating the Zune a three and the iPod a four.  There are too many important features missing from the Zune. Neither gets a five-star rating because they both don't do things I wish they could, like recording our board meetings. I wouldn't switch from iPod to Zune for anything and I wouldn't recommend it over an iPod. Depending on what you want to do the Zune is nice, but if you like features over the latest buzz I'd stay away for now.