ID: B00008UI0R-R3KMD0SOYG2IC7-A13YM4FUDXTJG6
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A13YM4FUDXTJG6
ReviewerName: C. Anand
Date: September 10, 2007
Helpful: 84 of 89
Rating: 1.0
Title: PLEASE, PLEASE STAY AWAY FROM THIS VACUUM
Content:
If there was an option to choose 0 stars on this one I would.  From day one, we saw problems with this vacuum.  
We have been servicing and selling vacuums for 35 + years.  The first time I saw this vacuum in for service, a very nice woman brought us the vacuum in 4-5 pieces.  
I thought the vacuum had just made it back from Iraq!  I asked her what happened, and she told me that she had accidentally dropped the machine down the stairs while vacuuming her stairs.  
The main housing on this vacuum was so brittle, it broke multiple times, in multiple places.  I asked her how long she had had the vacuum, and she told me a little over 1 year.  This was out of the warranty period for the vacuum, and we had to charge her.  The total repair was $120.  The main housing itself sold for $74.99!  
In my years of servicing vacuums, I have never seen such cheap, cheap plastic.  You literally can break the plastic by squeezing the housing in your hands!  I would by lying if I said that was the only time we have seen this problem.  I would say that in the two years this vacuum has been out there, we have serviced 15-20 units.  The plastic is not the only problem though.  
The electric hose, has all the controls on the handle of the machine.  Very convienent, however VERY problematic.  We have replaced several of these hoses because of short circuits.  
The main problem we are having right now is, the main HEPA Filter: Hoover WindTunnel Bagless Canister Filter # 59134033, is not available from Hoover.  We have currently 30-40 of these on back order from JUNE!  This is the main filter for the vacuum, without replacing this filter, the motor will surely fail. Check around and see for yourself, this filter is NOT AVAILABLE PERIOD!  I expect to be replacing motors on this unit on a mass scale in the coming months.  PLEASE, PLEASE stay away from this Hoover WindTunnel. You will be sorry.  
Hoover has sold their company 3 times in the last 4 years.  The first sale was to Whirpool.  Whirpool then sold out to Maytag.  Maytag sold the Hoover company again in March to TTI Floorcare, the parent company of Dirt Devil, and Royal Vacuums.  It is unfortunate to see such a good brand name at one point, fall like Hoover has.