ID: B000TQEDE4-R2VBMIEX6EZ5Q3-A2B4PFJ280867U
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1150BK-Programmable-Thermal-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A2B4PFJ280867U
ReviewerName: Lyn Gerry
Date: March 6, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Finally something that is not crap! I love it!
Content:
Let me begin by thanking all of you who have written reviews over the years. You've saved me a lot of grief, because it is so hard to find anything worth the money anymore. This is the first review I've ever written on anything. I have now had this coffee pot for at least six months and I make 3-4 pots daily.
I looked long and hard to find a pot that had the things that mattered to me: thermal carafe that keeps the coffee hot and pours properly, coffee brewing water is hot enough, coffee maker doesn't fall apart soon after purchase, turns itself off when brewing is complete, cone shaped filter basket, no "swing out" filter basket, easy to read markings on water fill level. Last but not least, it makes good tasting coffee. This pot does all these things. For the long answer, read on.
For me, there is no option but a thermal carafe; aside from the energy saving issues, the hotplate ruins the taste of the coffee, so any machine with a hotplate is out for me. I have bought thermal makers that didn't keep the coffee hot for more than an hour. (Do yourself a favor; never buy anything made by de longhi) This pot has kept coffee hot to enough to drink overnight, and I like hot coffee and add milk.
This pot is intelligently designed from the electronic standpoint in that all of the controls are in the top, above the coffee. Therefore, if your filter clogs, or you forget and start a new pot going before the old one is empty and thus have an overflow, you will not short out your electronics as has happened with those with controls on the base.
In the reviews that I read of this by others, two negatives mentioned were the cost of the replacement water filter and the size of the hole through which one pours water to fill it. Here is the solution to both things: I filter all my water for drinking and cooking with a PUR pitcher. It happens to be exactly the right size to fill the water chamber for 10 cups, and pours quickly and neatly into the opening of the fill chamber.
The mesh basket for the coffee works well and is easy to remove to clean, as is the thing which holds it. It is made so that it seats itself property when putting it back in - no guesswork or disasters.
I have not mentioned anything about the programmable functions because I never use them. The machine beeps when brew cycle is finished. I can't relate complaints about the beep; it's fine. The coffeemaker happens to be very nice looking too, (black and silver) and the handle of the carafe is comfortable to hold, and even people with arthritis or similar hand problems I think would find it so. I rarely open the top of the cafe but that is easy too; it its clicks into place with a 90 degree turn. No turning and turning a large hard to hold threaded top.
Note this: Cuisinart actually provides a 3 year warranty, which demonstrates to me their intention not to sell you a piece of junk. Seventy bucks is a lot of money for a coffee maker, and it better last a really long time as far as I am concerned. So far, so good. Frankly, if the other manufacturers can't make something at least as well designed and functional as this, they should just go out of business. I am tired of "built in obsolescence" and coffee pots that can't make coffee but give me a weather report or some other nonsense, and weed whackers that can't whack weeds but promise to improve my love life or whatever. I am tired of being ripped off and insulted; I wish them all in bankruptcy.