ID: B000063XHI-RUKIW3I1BGIHR-ANE4R0S2P0UL3
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Capresso-440-05-Electronic-Coffeemaker-Thermal
ReviewerID: ANE4R0S2P0UL3
ReviewerName: J. Scott
Date: December 9, 2005
Helpful: 16 of 16
Rating: 5.0
Title: great coffee.
Content:
I've been using my MT500 3-4 times per week for about two years now and it has given me nothing but pot after pot of good coffee-- no trouble, no overflows, no problems. This is a fantastic machine. I have never met another auto-drip which can make a better cup. And believe me, I get around.
I have exactly two minor complaints with the design: (1) the carafe lid is a pain and your friends will make a dribbly mess of pouring out of it until you show them the magical secret of the dot (which lines up with a cutout underneath), and (2) the filter basket gradually acquires a scent of old coffee that no amount of dishwashing can get out, which you can eventually taste ever-so-slightly in the coffee. As far as I know, though, there is no such thing as an auto-drip filter basket made of anything except plastic no matter what model you buy, so consider this a hopeful suggestion for the future rather than a complaint.
Okay, now to the coffee! There is exactly one thing you need to know about this machine: it puts water onto the grounds at the right temperature and the right speed, and does so consistently. Ta-daa. Great coffee. I'll say it again: I've never had better from an auto-drip.
Regarding the complaints of coffee not being hot enough: if you're using a thermal carafe, you should rinse it out with hot water right before brewing, otherwise some of the heat in your freshly brewed coffee is going to go toward heating up that cold, stainless steel liner. This has nothing to do with this coffee maker or carafe in particular; it's just a fact of life when you use a thermal carafe. Suggestion: do the hot water trick while you're waiting for the beans to grind. (You *are* grinding the beans right before brewing, right? If not, consider a cheaper coffee maker.)
Regarding the coffee maker overflowing: mine has seen a lot of use from a lot of people and it has never once overflowed.
As a conscientious citizen, I can't conclude this review without urging the reader to consider the rest of their coffee brewing process as well. If you're spending this much on a machine, please, don't hesitate to buy a decent grinder (capresso 560, solis maestro, or better), and don't bother buying beans that don't have a roasting date on them (anything more than 1-2 weeks old is going to start tasting like cardboard). It's entirely possible that with other machines, those things didn't make much difference, but this machine is quite capable of bringing out every little nuance of what you put into it.