ID: B0007QKMSC-RBPV5C3XS5A4V-AV2B66Q0FLJJE
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-Camera
ReviewerID: AV2B66Q0FLJJE
ReviewerName: A. Lin
Date: May 6, 2006
Helpful: 62 of 64
Rating: 4.0
Title: Not Perfect, but...
Content:
Generally speaking Canon Rebel XT/350D is a very capable camera, it's far beyond the realm of an entry-level dSLR. However, it's not without flaws, some are fairly significant.
Pros: 
Speed, speed, and speed...
Low-priced and feature-packed camera that worth every penny
Excellent Burst Mode, up to 9 shots at highest JPEG resolution
Compact design, solid construction, though small grip takes time to get use to
User-friendly interface
Great low-lighting AF capability
Sharp image with vibrant color and contrast at default setting (parameter 1)
Possibly best free bundled software on the market
Cons:
Evaluative Metering often performs poorly; Center-Weighted Average is a better choice for normal shooting
No true Spot-Metering. Only Partial-Metering instead ...works ok though
Auto AF point selection often misses intended target. Manual AF point selector helps but annoying to use
AI Servo AF does not work well as advertised, must accompanied with high ISO and shutter speed (1/500th sec or faster)
Relatively weak onboard flash, often needs positive compensation to get the job done
Below average Auto White-Balance performance
High ISO performance is not as good as some professional reviews. Noticeable noise at 800 and above
The bottom line, Canon Rebel XT/350D is like a well-put-together high-tech toy that invites you to play every time you put your hands on. It's not camera for someone just wants to do point and shoot. To get the best of out this camera requires some learning and adequate accessory...at least one decent lens ($400 and up) and a high capacity/high speed CF card (minimum 1GB and 40x) are absolute necessities. One also must be willing to explore various options this camera provides...ISO setting, Exposure Compensation, White-Balance adjustment, Depth of Field, Creative-Zone photography and RAW shooting are just a few areas worth spending time on.