ID: B000EPHQNA-RBWTS3C1RPFZN-ADG9WB90NO6OA
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-shuffle-Bright-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: ADG9WB90NO6OA
ReviewerName: Valerie Guastavino
Date: November 15, 2007
Helpful: 2 of 7
Rating: 2.0
Title: Smaller Isn't Always Better
Content:
In March of 2006, I purchased an ipod shuffle. True, it's about twice the size of the ipod shuffle now, but it came with a lanyard, a headphone plug and a USB plug for charging.
After receiving the latest ipod shuffle, the fist problem I encountered was the clip. It hanged or flopped over instead of being securely clipped on and staying upright, and I was not aware the latest ipod shuffle required the wearing of specific types of clothing to be secure. Ugh. 
And, since it is a clip, of course, there's no attachment for a lanyard, so I used a thick shoe lace and threaded it through the clip instead, so I can wear it around my neck.
The worse thing I discovered, however, is that Apple did not include a separate plug for charging which creates a serious problem--a lot of wear and tear.
Every single headphone plug I've used over the years would start to lose contact with the contact points over time, and unfortunately, it doesn't take long for it to occur if you keep plugging in and unplugging the head phones. The contact points wear down, and it reaches the point where the slightest movement of the headphone plug can cause music to cut out and you have to fiddle with it constantly in order to keep both "stereo" channels or any music going at all.
For me, too, I found the clip itself made matters worse because the headphone plug would get yanked or bent downward when I was moving around. After just one attempt at wearing the ipod shuffle with the clip and my music cutting out several times, I knew it was time to come up with some kind of lanyard.
Unfortunately, the lanyard doesn't solve the problem about the headphone and charging plug being the same and all the wear and tear it's required to take.
As a result, I have been using my older shuffles far more, for I suspect my new ipod shuffle is not going to last nearly as long due to this particular poor design by Apple.