ID: B000A3N6O4-R4TG80TB6BI2B-A27U9GS4JC6USB
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Vision-Multimedia-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A27U9GS4JC6USB
ReviewerName: Super ReviewR
Date: March 30, 2007
Helpful: 2 of 7
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good product for the price
Content:
Pros:  
A lot of features such as Video Playback, MP3, Organizer, Alarm Clock, Voice Recorder, FM Tuner.  Using their software is basically like opening up explorer in Windows.  Resolution and sound quality are nice.  Having buttons instead of a touch pad allows for more precise control.  Removable battery pack is nice.  There is an additional extended battery pack available for purchase.  Has a speaker so you can blast ghetto music in a fancy restaurant if you'd like.  Can take a CompactFlash card to transfer data.  Many other fun features.      
Cons:
OMG is it HUGE!!!  I honestly wasn't expecting it to be THAT big.  I thought "hm... maybe a little bit bigger than the Zen Vision M...?"  This thing is almost the exact same size as my Nintendo DS!  I just can't get over how HUGE it is.  It's a bit of a turn off for those who might want to use it to exercise and walk around with.  Think super old school Walkman but significantly heavier! When the delivery guy dropped it off, I was shocked that the box was so HUGE!!  I thought they had sent me the wrong item!  And then I opened it...!!!  I was almost repulsed by how prehistoric it looked!
More cons...  The thing LAGS.  It definitely doesn't operate nearly as fast as the iPod when switching menus.  I guess that's because of all the things it offers.  It does get to be a little bit tedious and frustrating.  
Even more cons...  Lack of accessories.  I guess I probably won't need a toughskin or protector for this thing, because if I drop it, it'll damage whatever it lands on, purely by its size.  
Overall, as far as the functions of this player are concerned, I'm happy with it.  However, I'm still trying to get over the ridiculous size of the thing.  Do I dare bring it out in public?  What would my friends say?  Would people stare?!  I highly suspect that they will laugh.    
Oh well...  I guess I was really only going to use it to play music in the car.  I must remember to hide it in the glove box before I let any passengers in the car.