ID: B000S5UY2G-R2BJS7CB5UCAYU-AT9ZHTSG3XZ5U
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-Wi-Fi-Portable-Media-Player
ReviewerID: AT9ZHTSG3XZ5U
ReviewerName: artcodex
Date: November 28, 2007
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: feature packed
Content:
So this device has a number of really useful features packed into a great portable device. I can#t really say whether the quality will last the test of time. I've had it for 2 months now. Initially there were some glitches with sound, these were fixed by a software update, and I haven't had too manhy issues since. 
Generally the device works well. It exposes multiple features in a usable fashion. The navigation menu's and overall usability of the device isn't very user friendly. It's not as intuitive to use as some other players on the market. However all the features are there and more.
Try and think of a portable device that can surf 95% of web pages and truly supports flash content. 99% of pda's can't boast that. It has a number of extra "soft" features such as wireless streaming from a computer through the player.
If you really want to fully feel the force of the player, you will need to purchase the extra plugins and the dvr station. For around $75 the dvr station does a really good job for the price!! It's not much more than ipod video out cables and it allows this plus much more. Make recordings of any program, stream content from a desktop pc through the player and dvr onto your tv with ease. Surf the web on your TV and watch youtube and google videos through it. This is one of the most amazing things, and the quality isn't too bad, especially with youtube videos!!
I'll need more time to see whether the device continues to perform well to judge whether it will last. It's not the sort of portable you'd want to take on a short road/rail/bus trip as it's not as portable as a simple mp3 player and is more purposeful as a video player. You are likely to use it more as a portable video on long haul journeys, and in this class it performs great. 
My one major gripe with the product is the lack of tv tuner thus relying on the digital cable boxes to perform the tuning and making channel control difficult (although the feature is available it doesn't seem to work with my setup). This means if I want to record 2 seperate programs on 2 seperate channels I'd need to manually switch channels.
Not the optimum thing to do when recording overnight. A little trick around this would be to use the cable auto program tuning features if you have such available to force the cable box to autotune to the different channels for recording. This should work but is definitely annoying and unwelcome.
All in all great device, does what it says and performs reasonable well at it.