ID: B0001A99LK-R2LYDB0DG2UACK-A1W6GMETQVRGVQ
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-mini-M9435LL-MODEL
ReviewerID: A1W6GMETQVRGVQ
ReviewerName: J. Stevens
Date: July 7, 2004
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Simply Amazing!!
Content:
From the moment you open the box till the final song you hear, the iPod is an experience unlike any other.  When I first got thing, I sat down and opened up what was to be the best 250 bucks i've ever spent.  After sliding off the cover and opening the two halves of the cubic box, there is one word on the inside cover, &quot;Enjoy.&quot;  And thats what I've been doing ever since.  This thing is an absolute joy to use!However, many people complain about the 4gb space and how for only $50 more you can get more than twice the space.  However, all of you should stop and take a look at how much space you really are using.  2gigs?  4gigs?  500mb?  Come on, only a small percentage of you actually have more than 5gb of music on your computer.  And even if you have 50gb of music, will you actually listen to ALL of it before listening to the same song twice?  I think not.  When I bought this, a friend of mine with a 10gb iPod laughed at me and said, &quot;What a waste of money.  You could of gotten so much more space for only a little bit more money.&quot;  Okay, that is true.  But after looking at his iPod, he only had 2GB of music on it!  This example, I belive, is the truth for most (but not all) the music lovers out there.  We need a reality check everyone...And here it is:  4gb is about 3 days STRAIGHT listening to music.  If you happen to listen to all 4gb of music and get tired, simply hook it back up to your computer and get a fresh set of music.  Not too difficult, huh? You just saved yourself 50 bucks.The truth is, if YOU like the iPod mini, then YOU buy it.  Who cares if your friends with the regular iPods make fun of you?  You know that deep down inside, they really envy your mini.  Yours is smaller, lighter, more scratch-resistant, easier to use, has a longer battery (in most cases), comes with a USB 2.0 cable, and is cheaper.  And lets not forget the coolness factor, which simply dominates all other music players on the market today.  But whatever model you choose, you can't go wrong with an iPod.