ID: B000VDQ38E-RUFZGGRUV1A3J-AOXQTPVTR1VOX
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: AOXQTPVTR1VOX
ReviewerName: T. J. West "Michigan Mom"
Date: December 9, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 1.0
Title: Bad Design
Content:
I have had my Bissell Pet Hair Eraser for a little over a year now and am shopping for a new vacuum cleaner again. No, it is not broken. However, there are several reasons why I strongly dislike using this vacuum:
1. The design causes a constantly recurring problem of clogging where the hose meets the console. It clogs up in the upper chamber and the L-shaped area at top of hose. This problem is sooooo frustrating and occurs so often that it makes vacuuming a very unpleasant chore. When it gets clogged up in te upper chamber you have to take the hose off and the canister out in order to access the clog. Even then it is very hard to get to and ends up creating a terrible mess spreading dirt all over the outside of the machine as well as the surrounding floor area. I have learned to spread newspapers out each time before working on clearing up the clog. You may think this is because I let the canister get too full before emptying it, but just the opposite. I never let it get more than 1/4 full before emptying it. The backup occurs even if the canister is almost empty. Just a bad design.
2. HEAVY and cumbersome for vacuuming stairs. Very hard to maneuver on the carpeted stairs.
3. The canister has to be emptied so often. Because I try to eliminate anything that might encourage clogging up the system, I empty the canister as soon as it looks like it is backing up which is pretty much when it gets to 1/4 full.... and it isn't all that big. So I empty it many times each time I vacuum my house.... which is quite often.
4. The roller brush had to be replace the 2nd week we had this vacuum cleaner as it had very fragile plastic end brackets that broke right away. So go ahead and add the cost of a replacement roller brush to your vacuum purchase price.
5. The attachment selection: I need an attachment that I can use on my kitchen floors and foyer. None of the included attachments are right for cleaning hard floors.
That's all! You know they just don't make vacuums like they used to and maybe I'll never find one that I like as well as the Panasonic which I bought in 1993 and it lasted me 10 years. I loved it! But since then I have not been able to find one I like. I'm going to stay away from the "bagless" models from now on. Way too messy! Thanks for letting me vent!