ID: B0009BO2TA-R1NZ8OGO16D6BX-AH0HEWCYSUVU6
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S1361-Portable-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: AH0HEWCYSUVU6
ReviewerName: Katsjammies
Date: April 22, 2006
Helpful: 14 of 15
Rating: 4.0
Title: Does what I expect a straight suction vacuum cleaner to do...
Content:
I think this is a nice little vacuum cleaner for the price. I've used it 5 times now and not once have any of the wands come apart, (to be fair I've expected them to based on earlier reviews, as well as, an older small straight suction vac cleaner I have from Hoover which does this all the time and a Shark with the same problem that I just gave away).
I've found the suction to be excellent for its size and amps,(I can only guess that an earlier reviewer's complaint about this wasn't taking into account that the bag was ripped, hence no suction), and I was surprised at what it did pick up on carpets.
To be frank, I don't expect a straight suction vacuum cleaner of any brand to work on carpets beyond picking up the weekly dust.
I bought this to compliment the Hoover S3765-040 Wind Tunnel Electronic bagless I bought recently, which is excellent (minus some personal nits I have on bagless vacs). Having two cats means a lot of loose hair on a daily basis, as well as, the dust from cat litter. Which is why I got this little guy.
For me small vacs aren't meant to do the same as a $400.00 and up vacuum cleaner and I don't get why some reviewers seem to think they should. For me, this acts as a quickie cleaner that complements the power vac I have. It's not going to get the major cat hair off the carpets (that's why I have the Wind Tunnel), but it does get the stuff that a broom, Swiffer or powerstick isn't quite up to.
I use this in my kitchen (hardwood flooring), to get the crumbs, cat hair, etc. that a Swiffer just can't keep up with. Especially with the 2 aforementioned cats.
I use it on the first floor to pick up tracked litter and litter dust that accumulates quickly. 
I was surprised that this had enough suction to pick up some loose cat hair on the carpet and dirt tracked in from the garage as well, so I'm very pleased with this vac.
I like that it's lightweight and easily carted between levels (and living in a 3 story townhouse, trust me, it gets annoying fast lugging a heavier vac up and down the steps). It allows me to stretch the time between "major" vacuuming days so for me, its a good machine.
If you're looking for a vac to really clean shag or pile carpets then you have to get one with a power nozzle. If you want a small vac to clean the tiled or wood floors around the house, the inside of your car, and the cat litter muck, then this is a very good vac.