ID: B0007QKMR8-R3A8FC0BEFCCVL-A2SFW9Q1QXBRW0
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-Camera
ReviewerID: A2SFW9Q1QXBRW0
ReviewerName: Chelsea Lynn
Date: November 7, 2005
Helpful: 28 of 31
Rating: 5.0
Title: Student Review
Content:
The new Canon EOS "Digital Rebel" XT offers many of the same exposure features and improvements as the 10D, but slightly scaled back to keep costs under control. The Canon EOS "Digital Rebel" XT provides a slightly re-engineered CMOS (Complementary Metal Oxide Semiconductor - Another imaging system used by digicams. It is not as popular as CCD but the future promises us even better digicams based on CMOS sensors due to the lower amount of power consumption versus the typical CCD device) sensor very similar to that on the Canon EOS 10D, as well as most of the same exposure features. 
  
The main differences lie in the design of the body. The Canon EOS "Digital Rebel" XT makes much greater use of plastic, it has less control over focus or metering modes, also does not have a Custom settings menu, and a handful of other minor changes. The Canon EOS "Digital Rebel" XT is an exceptionally small and lightweight camera designed for amateur Digital SLR owners, but it delivers the responsiveness and image quality you'd expect from a semipro model.
What's new is a specially designed Canon EF-S lens, designed only for the Digital Rebel, and sold only as part of the Digital Rebel kit. This new lens takes advantage of the size difference between the Rebel's sensor and a normal 35mm film frame to reduce the back-focus distance, shrink the image circle, and shed quite a bit of size, weight, and cost in the process. The biggest draw for the Digital XT is that it offers much of the same functionality as the wildly popular 10D model, but at a much lower price.
After personally owning the Canon EOS "Digital Rebel" XT for four months, I have found it more useful than a normal pocket digital camera and normal SLR (Single Lens Reflex) camera. This camera is the pinnacle of camera production. We have the capability to create SLR camera media and quality into digital media at your finger tips, with quality results, editable right then and there, and all the while providing the reliability that a normal SLR camera would come with. This camera has also offered up incomparable quality and functionality. It is versatile; with the various lens compatibility it holds there is no end to the possibilities and the creativity.