ID: B000VDQ38E-R1T8MVXL2TDNO7-A17LZI9KYNGVCW
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Bissell-3920-Dual-Cyclonic-Upright-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A17LZI9KYNGVCW
ReviewerName: Liesl McCord
Date: February 28, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Bissell 3920 Truly Has Amazing Performance
Content:
With 4 cats in the house, cat hair is everywhere - all the time!  Granted, 3 of them have relatively short hair, but our bohemeth has lots of long, black hair!  Two of them are indoor only cats and 2 are indoor-outdoor cats, so not only do we get cat hair on every surface, but the other two like to bring in leaves and twigs and dirt and such from the outdoors, too.  Plus, the litter box may be in the laundry room with a linoleum floor, but invariably, litter will make its way to the carpeted hallway.  About 5 years ago, before the cats, I had purchased a basic, no frills vacuum from Wal-Mart in the $60 range if I remember correctly.  Once I adopted the first cat, the long-haired one, that vacuum still did alright, but with the newer feline additions, my sister moving in and a move to a larger house, that thing just lost most all suction and the hose clogged a whole lot easier and more often.  It wasn't cutting it anymore so I started a search for vacuums that professed a design specifically for pet hair.
After much searching and comparing and reading others' reviews, I finally found the Bissell 3920 Pet Hair Eraser.  Compared to even some of the more expensive models, the Bissell was certainly more affordable but still had as good if not better reviews than some others like the Dyson Animal model.  Still, I was a bit skeptical because things don't always live up to the hype or will perform great the first few times but then fails terribly over time.  In this case, though, we've been using the Pet Hair Eraser for about 6 months and still love it!  We were so surprised the first time we ran it down the hallway - just the hallway - and it was like new carpet had been laid.  Then we figured out the little attachment on the front flips down and acts like a lifter to kind of separate the carpet fibers and pulls more from the in-between spaces then on the front stroke, the lifter pushes its contents back to the main part so that gets suctioned in, too.  It actually gets along walls really well, too!  
Plus, if you don't or can't get into smaller spaces, the attachments are phenomenal!  Not just the typical crevice tip or the brush tip like you might see on other vacuums, but these also come with the pet-hair lifter and a rotating brush that, again, separates the fibers to loosen the dirt, hair, etc to get more than just what's on the surface.  With the extra-long cord, I don't have to change plugs but twice to get the whole house vacuumed and that's mostly because it's a two-story house so I have to move the plug to reach the next floor.  
If there are drawbacks, they are few & far between.  With a bagless system, its easy to empty, but its best to make sure you put the receptacle almost completely in the trash bag or can or you'll get a face full of dust.  The power button seems to be in an odd place for me, too, but that's probably more because I'm so used to have a foot pedal.  I wouldnt mind a bit longer hose or a longer extension piece so I could reach higher and under things better since I'm only 5' tall.  I'd like to have a light on the front, too so it'd be easier to see where I'm going in those tighter/darker spaces and see little things that may be lying in my path.  
Other than that, though, I'd recommend this machine for just about every pet owner in the world.  Even if you don't own a pet, it's awesome for general cleaning, too.  There's just a lot of power and plenty of options for most every surface.  I've even used it to clean the bugs out of the light globes on the porches and the dusting attachment around the electronics cabinet. 
The reviewer was compensated for posting this review.  However, the opinion stated in the review is that of the reviewer and the reviewer alone. Further, the reviewer independently selected this product to review and has no affiliation with the product maker/distributor, Amazon or the review requester.