ID: B000GG6LWY-R336ATKT7LVNLH-A2YKUVPPJBXZM3
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Optimus-H-4436-14-Inch-Oscillating-Control
ReviewerID: A2YKUVPPJBXZM3
ReviewerName: Taylor Walker
Date: February 15, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Nice supplemental heater
Content:
This is a great supplemental heater for any small to medium size room. 
It is ideal for directional and focused heating where you need it.  
This heater was a replacement to an out of production "Sunbeam" 800 to 1200w heater of a similar type.
Reviews stating that this heater saves them money on their utilities or that their bills went up, you should be paying more attention as to the cost of electricity or gas instead.  if electricity is a higher cost, you should probably use this heater sparingly.
PROS:
For Pet Owners: This style of heater is a must have over any fan driven space heater.  No burnt or dusty smells from pet hair being blown through heated coils.
This is not a sole supplier of heat in a home, but for living conditions where the temperature dips into the teens or lower only on occasion and you just can't seem to warm up with central heating alone at a normal temperature, this is a great thing to have around for some heating on the spot. It is nice to have in your Home office, or in front of the couch or anywhere spot heating is required.
The Grill is easily removed by 3 screws for dusting/cleaning of grill and dish after summer storage.
CONS:
For those living in extreme conditions where it gets into the single digits or negatives, you should look into a model with a 800w to 1200w settings.  At constant low temperatures you may find you will use this lighter model (400w to 800w) constantly, thus contributing to  higher charges on your electric bill.  With higher wattage you'll heat things up faster and have to use it less.
FRILLS:
- OSCILLATION: The oscillation was something I'd never had before, and would have done just fine without, but it really is nice to have on occasion.
- REMOTE: The Remote Control is also something I could have done without (Who needs another remote control laying around) but it is nice to have as well.  The remote control is actually more functional than the controls on the heater itself.  You can toggle the heat between high and low on the remote without turning the heater off.  On the heater console, the toggle for the 400/800w also has the "off" setting in it so, if you are on high heat and you want to put it on low, you have to press the button twice (turns off, then turns on at 400w)
- TILT: The Tilt is excellent.  very adjustable to what ever angle you'd like.
SUMMARY:
- Focused directional heat.
- Extreme conditions: get the 800w - 1200w version.
- Great for pet owners.
- Easier to clean than some other models.
- Frills not necessary, but are functional and convenient.