ID: B000CS7UEY-R6XUE4QC1ZBJS-AAGIQSIH718FD
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Zen-Vision-Video-Player
ReviewerID: AAGIQSIH718FD
ReviewerName: Jessna A. Woods
Date: December 28, 2006
Helpful: 14 of 14
Rating: 5.0
Title: IN LOVE!
Content:
I originally went to Best Buy and going to buy an IPod, but after the salesman started telling me about the two I really started looking at the Zen. I flew on airplanes for a living at the time and needed something to keep me company in those in between times.
I like it over the IPod for several reasons... 1. It's not overrated. 2. It beats IPod on performance in almost every review 3. It's more compatible then IPod (I haven't found a media file I couldn't play on there and that includes Itunes with a little help with a media program) 4. I like the features better 5. It was cheaper then the IPod of almost the same function
IPod is more accessible, but that didn't bother me. I bought JVC jellies (because the ones that came with it hurt my hears with my airplane headset on) and a Kroo case (the one with the connection hole at the bottom, older Kroo cases don't have that so be sure to check for that) for it and I loved it even more. I used it for many hours on the plane without a problem and our stuff gets pretty beat up. My friend lost her IPod thanks to how rough our stuff is treated on the plane. The Kroo case has done awesome protecting my Zen. And then recently I drove 16 hours with almost straight music... put it on DJ and just drive along. I had no car charger and it lasted the whole car ride. I did lock it so the screen was off and that probably helped, but it made the car ride much more enjoyable.
Overall, I'm in love with it... I have it in my purse all the time to plug in my car or watch my music videos with my friends or just to have something to do in a lull time. My Zen is a must! I've only had it freeze on me one time and that was like the first week I bought it since. No problems. The software is easy to use too. Creative MediaSource is my favorite out of all them. I think the Zen is more adaptive to a person's personality then the IPod. I've had three people sell their IPods and buy Zens after seeing mine and they are in love as much as I am!