ID: B00000JGRS-R3QZD45H9UN5V2-ATY33E0WJZ578
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-300BK-Automatic-10-Cup-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: ATY33E0WJZ578
ReviewerName: L. Sherman "HDTV guy"
Date: September 16, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Forget the Grinder - Use as a  Regular Coffee Maker
Content:
The bottom line is that this coffee maker makes OUTSTANDING tasting coffee (and that is the ultimate goal, right?).  10 years ago, I got one of these (in white) as a wedding present [serial number 321]. I soon discovered what a pain it was cleaning the grinder, etc., so I quit using the grinder part, and ground my beans in a separate grinder. What I discovered was that this coffee maker, for whatever reason (maybe the so-called "coffee bar flavor" system?) made really good FULL flavored coffee.  As the years went on, stuff stopped working on it (the grinder and warming plate), but the coffee continued to be great. Eventually, I had to unplug it at night in order for it to work at all in the morning.  Otherwise, it simply would not turn on.  Once I discovered this, I kept it going for another year or so.  In the mean time, I bought 2 highly recommended coffee makers.  A Cuisinart DCC1200 (I think that was the model number), and a Capresso MT500.  They both looked fantastic, but for whatever reason, would not brew strong full flavored enough coffee.  I did side by side comparisons, using exact same amount of my bold Trader Joes coffee, exact same amount of water, exact same grind.  The old Cuisinart always won, hands down.  Some how the shower head design is able to extract more flavor.  The used grounds are concentrated at the bottom of the filter (I user paper - gold tone filter makes weaker coffee), unlike the other makers, where the grounds seemed to "bloom" all over the place and rose almost to the top of the filer.  Anyways, today, I was at Macy's and noticed they are still selling this (in black), even though Cuisinart web site says this is a long discontinued model.  So, I bought one (cheap!!), and tried it out.  I immediately pressed the Grinder off button [I will never use it again] and made coffee.  Lo and behold, same fantastic flavor (only about 15 degrees hotter - gets up to about 182 degrees). I am a happy camper.