ID: B000LF2CBE-R236BXNQ37XPFY-A393N7S1ULED0R
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Stanley-675900-Pro-Ceramic-Pivoting-Utility
ReviewerID: A393N7S1ULED0R
ReviewerName: Randell
Date: December 9, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Works great, quiet
Content:
Arrived today and very pleased. With all the reviews here complaining about "windy" or "excessive blow", I was nervous about fan blowing cold air with heated. Absolutely not a problem with this unit.  With ongoing problems with home central system and other repair delays, I've tried every style portable heater available, including radiant tube, infra-red, wire coil, and ceramic.  All suffer from the 1500 watt, 5000 btu limitation of their market category.  But this squirrel-cage fan moves more heat more quietly than anything I've found, and expels no cold air in the process.  Of course this can't compete with the 220-240v portable that I use often for broad heat, but that unit is more expensive to buy and use, much more noisy, and requires access to 220 circuit.  For 110v, I'm happy with this unit.  
And complaining it can't heat a garage seems unreasonable, unless you are extremely well insulated with no cold concrete floor (unlikely). Can't imagine any 1500 watt unit doing much to beat that cold.       
Agree that images are deceptive about the directional adjustability here. Seems to have only about a 30 degree range (guessing, but less than 45).  Also, there is only one fan speed.  Unit merely adjusts from air only to partial heat to full heat.  Air movement amount is constant.  
And, if you are looking for a cool air fan, don't expect this unit to satisfy. It's strictly a small area heater, with an air-only option.  But I'm also fan of the same brand squirrel cage fan sold for cold air movement.  Squirrel cage fan simply moves more air. 
Overall this unit is pricey compared to other ceramic options, and grossly overbuilt (pipe frame is excessive and cumbersome), but the air volume and quiet of the squirrel cage makes the sale for me.