ID: B000AQSMPO-R1U1NP42M0KDKG-A2GB4MN39TWNIF
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-B60-Special-Single-Cup-Home-Brewing
ReviewerID: A2GB4MN39TWNIF
ReviewerName: Thunderstruck "Thunderstruck"
Date: December 16, 2007
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 3.0
Title: Extremely LOUD!
Content:
I received the B60 Model for a anniversary present.  The first time I started it up it was annoyingly loud.  I love the coffee that is produced by this coffee machine.  I use one at work (same model) and a friend has one also.  My wife bought the Keurig coffee maker because I talked about how fresh and good the coffee was for every cup.
I brought home some Neoprene rubber and put under the machine with no difference in how loud it was. I also made the mistake of putting my cup on the drip tray and walking away.  It vibrated so bad that the cup fell off the drip tray and before I could get back the drip tray was full of coffee.  I know there are good ones out there look at all the good reviews.  It seems there are a few were the pumps are out of balance or something to that affect.
I am giving three stars since I am the first one up and the loudness is very disturbing to the rest of the sleepers in our house.
I would of given 5 stars had it not been loud.  I will make a comment after I call customer service to see how well they work with me.
Called customer service today.  They needed to listen to the loudness over the phone. So I played along.  All I was told is "to be perfectly honest you might get one that is exactly the same"  Ok, what is that suppose to mean.  I used the one at work today and it is the exact same model.  No problems.  Cups don't vibrate off. No loud vibrating noise.
They also tried to tell me it is the environment and that makes it sound different or what it is sitting on.  I had it on a neoprene rubber mat.
For those of you with good machines great.  If need help from customer service GOOD LUCK!
Customer service is a 1 star.
12/24/07 Updated  Called Kohl's were we purchased the Model.  Kohl's said to bring it in and get another one even though we had thrown the box out already.