ID: B00064O8Z8-R1YMA4ARWBH8GV-APHCOM80G3HYN
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Mark-16-7MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: APHCOM80G3HYN
ReviewerName: John Tilelli MD "Bookaholic"
Date: July 20, 2006
Helpful: 114 of 120
Rating: 5.0
Title: comaprison to a 1ds (Mark I)
Content:
It seems unfair to compare this camera to a 10D (or 20D or 30D), either favorably or unfavorably. These instruments are good in their own right, but hardly  are in the same league as the 1DS Mark II. I have used all three of the xxD's, and an original 1ds body as well. It occurs to me that the folks who are interested in shelling out over 5 grand for a camera already have an idea about what they want, and that some of them are asking if they should trade in their 1ds body for a mark ii. It is to them that I am adressing this review. The remarks, I think will help those who have less experience with the line. Bear with me for the technical jargon and the emphais on Mark I vs II comparison. I want to help the buyer to decide if there really is a reason to spend this kind of money.
First, regarding resolution: you probably won't be able to tell the difference between Mark I and Mark II unless you are doing studio work. An 8x10 image is virtually indistinguishable. Most of us shoot in .jpg mode, and we don't mess with RAW. If you are doing a 17x20 wedding portrait and are working with uncompressed files, the Mark II is superior. I do outdoor work, so 11.6 megapixels is plenty. Finallyl, the quality of the glass makes a big difference (much more than the sensor resolution), so if you are a little strapped for cash, buy a 5D and spend the difference on "L" series lenses, or a used 1DS (Mark I).
Second: Ergonomics. I like the histogram on the Mark II better than the older camera, and appreciate the improved burst performance, and storage times. Small but significant differences. The battery life is way better, and I like that. I can get 700 frames out of a charge in the Mark II and only 200 from the Mark II. Thank you, Canon. Maybe in the next iteration they will do something with the black brick of a charger. I can only hope.
Third: Sensor noise. Most ofthe high-end cameras are CMOS now, and each time we look at a new generation of pictures we are wowed by the decrease in sensor noise at high ISO's. I remember that the we praised the Mark I for the low noise up to ASA 400. For the uninitiated, sensor noise is the random firing of a sensor due to quantum effects, and manifests as sparkle or random changes in pixel color. It is more prominent in low light and high ASA. The Mark I is great up to ASA 400, good up to 800 and needs some digital filtering at 1200. The Mark II is really good up to ASA 1600, and with a Photoshop filter is good to 3200. If you shoot in low light, the Mark II is for you.
Fourth: Color balance. I always loved the warm, saturated pictures that the Mark I gives, so don't get me wrong - better color rendition is not a reason to sell it for a new model. The Mark II, though, improves on it and gives beautiful color saturation with some improvement in the range of highligts. Digital photo buffs will know what I mean: if you take a picture with broad highlights, like a sky, the foreground objecst will be underexposed. and the highlights clear. Set the exposrue to the foreground, and the sky will be a burnt-out white. The Mark II has improved this much, but it still needs some work by Canon. For now, it helps to have taken a large number of pictures to get an idea as to how to set the exposure.
Fifth: Accuracy of the exposure. The Mark I had an annoying tendancy to overexpose by about a stop. I got used to turning down the exposure 1-2 stops, exposing on the highlights, and using Photoshop to correct the exposure. The Mark II is more accurate, and the Manual exposure is close to the metered exposure.
Sixth: The FF/1.6 business. I really don't see any reason that a 30D is a better camera because a 50mm lens gives an image analagous an 85mm lens in a full frame camera. Be advised, though, that lens evaluations depend on this distinction. Edge performance and flair may be more obvious on a full frame instrument. Both the 1DS and the 1DS Mark II tend to challenge lenses more because they work the full range of the lens from side to side and through the apertures. My 35-135 IS Canon lens gave great pictures on the 10D, but looks washed out on both of the 1Ds's. Before giving the 1DS Mark II a bum rap for less than perfect pictures, ask what lens was used.
Seventh: Price. Presently, a non-grey-market 1DS Mark II sells for around $6899 from reputable dealers. A used Mark I is around half that. I would take a half star away from Canon for the pounding my pocketbook is taking, but I understand that a Mark I was just about the same price when it was released. The price gradient presently would be tolerable for those shooting in low light, or for RAW studio work. Personally, I would buy a Mark I over a 5D for the improved construction. 
Finally, some general remarks. I would have liked to compare this fine camera to the comparable Nikon. Unfortunately, I cannot, because all my glass is Canon, and I have no money left for a mult-thousand buck purchase of a Nikon. Maybe someone else would write a review. 
My only beefs with Canon have to do with sensor dust, that seems to appear by spontaneous generation, and the steep learning curve that I had with my first use. (Plan on a night or two reading the manual) I guess I can forgive them for not putting a flash in it. Add a couple of hundred to the price for the purchase of a 580EX. Canon service has been terrific. If you have the bucks, quit complaining about the price and get one if you are a serious photographer. Look at the images in dpreview.com (and the long, thoughtful review there), and at fredmiranda.com - they will leave you breathless. This is a serious instrument for serious photographers and far be it from me to give it less than 5 stars for my petty complaints.