ID: B0000X7CMQ-R21MKFIK7CD7NO-AZT5LJBLJQHAE
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Zojirushi-EC-BD15-Thermal-Carafe-Coffee
ReviewerID: AZT5LJBLJQHAE
ReviewerName: H. Hanasik "Kitchen Couple"
Date: November 1, 2005
Helpful: 15 of 25
Rating: 4.0
Title: Consistent Performer Could Be Sturdier
Content:
The three main features we sought in an automatic coffee maker were, in order of importance:
1.	Consistency of brew: 5 stars.
2.	Quality and reliability of product: 2 stars.
3.	Convenience: 4 stars.
First, we recognize that taste is subjective, so in order to make this review helpful to others, we sought an objective metric: consistency. Either it makes a cup of coffee that tastes the same today as it did yesterday, and the day before that, or it does not. 
Second, we differentiate between quality and reliability. We assign to the aspect of quality our subjective opinion of the materials used to make the Zoji, its fit and finish, and the operation of its mechanicals. To the aspect of reliability, we define as reliable a product that serves its function without malfunction for a minimum time. 
For light consumer durables like the Zoji, we expect three years of trouble free service. We do not expect it to fulfill three years of trouble service. The Zoji is disappointingly flimsy. Its soft plastic housing and sprayer head are made of the same materials other products we have briefly owned and have had to dispose of because of breakage or malfunction under normal usage.  
The same fragility that we use to estimate the Zoji's short life expectancy also negatively influences our assessment of its quality. Soft plastic parts combine with loose time/brew cycle set and on/off buttons to thoroughly turn us off. We are unimpressed with the use of stainless steel for the insulated coffee pot and brew basket, but not for the housing of the unit itself. While we believe those features to be aesthetically pleasing, they do not offset the low quality of material used in the rest of the coffee maker.  
Third, while the Zoji is convenient, compared to our old method of stove top brewing, it does not earn all five stars only because, as mentioned in other reviews, pouring a cup of coffee from the insulated carafe is an exercise in patience-a characteristic we lack in sufficient quantity before we have consumed our first cup. The carafe pours excruciatingly slow. However, we love the ability to completely remove the filter basket and its stainless housing for rinsing after a brew cycle. 
Also, we now have to monitor the Zoji during its brew cycle because we have had two overflow instances. This is certainly not convenient.
In further consideration, should one purchase a Zoji, keep the unit on a baking sheet the first week or stay with it until the brew cycle is complete. We have had two spillover incidents so far. The first, we believe, was due to our using too fine of a grind and too restrictive of a filter. The second was inexplicable. Once one has determined what grind size and filter combination adequately allow water to pass into the carafe without spilling over, then one can remove the baking sheet.
In addition, the measurements provided on the water sight glass are meaningless. Measure water volume with a measuring cup. 
In response to criticism that the carafe does not adequately keep the coffee hot enough, for long enough, this has not been our experience. Coffee poured from the carafe three hours after brewing was still 160 degrees, a 23 degree reduction in temperature from the initial measurement. This is sufficiently hot in our opinion. Still, as a suggestion to those that prefer lava-hot coffee, one can preheat the carafe with hot tap water before brewing and use room temperature, as opposed to cold water. This will keep the coffee hotter longer.
Other criticisms mention a problem with filter fit. We have no problem fitting #4 filters into the basket. We do stuff them downward so that the spray arm will clear the edge when the unit is closed. Moreover, we ensure the spray arm clears by manually moving it into position instead of allowing the lid to do it. Finally, if one wants consistently great coffee, one must devote oneself to ensuring that one uses the same quality of coffee, coarseness of grind, quality of water, and ratio of water to coffee. 
In conclusion, we would repurchase our Zoji despite its shortcomings. We would also pay the same price for a sturdier unit made of hard plastic materials and forego the stainless trim. We would also be willing to recommend this and other Zoji products more enthusiastically if obtaining warranty service were as convenient and inexpensive as other machines. 
Update: November 28, 2006 our Zoji is still making consistent coffee and still functioning reliably. We've had no more overflow problems. We've also not had the other problems experienced by other owners. We did melt the soft plastic top when we left an under the counter kitchen light on. The tall unit began to melt from the heat of the lamp.