ID: B0007QKN22-R2D251H5BVAK2T-A2UXIKP0CJR5AN
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-XT-f3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A2UXIKP0CJR5AN
ReviewerName: C. Vincent "biblegal"
Date: August 26, 2005
Helpful: 4 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Awesome Camera
Content:
Just received this camera as an anniversary present. I love it!! It is replacing my Canon Rebel 2000 film camera. The XT is extremely easy to use, fast, and takes incredible pictures! I photographed a painting on our living room wall from quite a distance. When printed on 4x6 photo paper, I could still even read the signature on the painting. As others have stated, there is almost no shutter lag at all--even with a standard 512mb Compact Flash card to record the images. The menus are very easy to understand, and the features are easy to choose and set. The Black and White capabilities are awesome! The ability create and set custom parameters is wonderful.
The camera accepts my lenses from the Rebel 2000; however, it does not particularly like my Quantaray 70-300mm zoom lens. Sometimes it works, and sometimes I get an error code 99. It prefers original Canon lenses. (Just means I have a new item for my Christmas wish list.)
I am a short person and have no issue with the size of the camera at all. (Some have stated that it is too small.) This is perfect for me and the feel of the camera in my hand is quite "hefty." 
I recommend a screen cover for the LCD because it is smudged by the nose while taking pictures. I plan to get one right away.
This is a great camera for those wanting to switch to a digital SLR, but do not have the extra $$$$$ for the Canon 20D or some of the other choices out there. It has all of the features you could want as an advanced beginner for setting the creative zones for personalized photography. I think it will even work for the novice who just wants to use it in the automatic zone, too!! Awww, why not say it---even some "pros" will probably find this one great addition to their camera collection.
This may just be the camera you have always dreamed of having--it is for me!!