ID: B000SR1EP0-R2YIYZ5CT92HSO-A1UFZ6IT3QWN1Q
Category: AirConditioners
Product: NewAir-R-1000H-Refurbished-Portable-Conditioner
ReviewerID: A1UFZ6IT3QWN1Q
ReviewerName: L. Nguyen
Date: June 26, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 1.0
Title: Not working as advertised and completely worthless
Content:
This unit is arrived at my home on June 18th just about ready for a severe heat session in Southern California. After installing my own window vent with plexi-glass, I'm completely disappointed to find out that this unit fails to bring temperature of my small room (150 sq feet) to below 81F with the temperature in the house about 83F (we have an old central evaporative cooler) and outside temperature is 94F. At first, I thought the exhaust hose is producing heat that could contribute to the heat problem so I went to Home Depot to buy insulation fiber material to insulate the exhaust hose. No more heat leaked into the air by the exhaust hose but still it doesn't solve the problem so I spent one more day to investigate further what & why. Following is what I think why this unit and their brethren are just a piece of worthless junk.
Regular window A/C or central A/C forces outside air into the unit first then through the condensing/evaporating process, blows the cool air into your room while drawing the hot air outside. This process adds new cool air, into the room, in effect lower the temperature of your room. The key operation here is OUTSIDE AIR INTO A/C FIRST then into the room.
Portable A/C cooling process is same as regular type A/C with a major exception, that they don't have air inlet hose to force new air into the unit first but rather new air is sucked from the surrounding into the room to replace the volume of hot air, used in the condense/evaporating process, being purged to outside through a window vent. The outside hot air rushes into the room to replace the volume of hot air pumping out through the exhaust hose in effect adds higher temperature into your room while the unit is trying to lower the temperature. This tug of war game causes your room will never be more than few degree F lower your room surrounding's temperature. The key operation here is AIR INTO THE ROOM FIRST then to the A/C.
Just to get you a better idea how terrible it is in term of cooling, we have another 6000BTU window A/C made by Frigidaire installed in another small room (same size). On that same day, that room came down to 72F within 1/2 hour.
In addition to sharing the design flaw of the single hose portable A/Cs, this unit is running like a washing machine. Every once in a while, the washing machine inside this unit is turned on noisily for like 10-15 minutes and I have no idea what causes it because the fans, or blowers, are running very normal. No one could sleep when the washing machine is turning on. And on again.
Now about Air & Water: I have filled the RMA return with Air & Water and it took more than 4 days w/o receiving any words from them despite the fact that they claim that customer would received RMA authorization within 48 hours. Of course, unless they are swamped with a lot of returns. I rather eat 15% stocking fee than have a piece of junk in my room, not working better than any cheapo evaporative cooler with less cost in price and much less in monthly electricity bill for this A/C has to run 24/24 in order to get around 81F.