ID: B000I1ZWRC-R2N1GV085R4B76-ARUBELBHETB88
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-10-1MP-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: ARUBELBHETB88
ReviewerName: J. Ramirez
Date: February 14, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: One of the best Canon has ever made...
Content:
There are over 600 reviews on this camera, and over 90% of them are 4-5 stars. So, why would I add my 2 cents? Because this model is simply one of the best Canon has ever made. 
I'll give you three simple reasons why:
1. Value--for the price, this camera is awesome. You can take professional quality photos that look like they were shot with a $4,000 camera. Purchasing this camera leaves room in your wallet for great accessories (especially lenses), books, and maybe even lessons, that will really make your pics stand out. Spend money on accessories and knowledge, not the camera body!  
2. Image Quality--I have taken pictures that people thought were done by a professional. Just the other day Walgreens wanted me to produce a copyright release for a picture THAT I TOOK MYSELF. They thought it was professional. I've tested this camera against the 40D and 5D models. Not much difference in image quality, period.
3. Ease of Use--It was not hard to learn how to use the advanced features of this camera. I was snapping decent photos right out of the box. Reading the manual got me photos that were twice as good. Then I bought a couple of books here on Amazon related to the Rebel and digital photography in general, and now people are willing to PAY for pictures that I have taken. 
Please don't think I'm writing this review just to brag about myself. My point is this: 10 months ago I couldn't take a decent picture to save my life. Now, photography is a serious hobby that I truly love. I owe this enjoyment to the low price and great quality of the Rebel Xti.
P.S.
For other newbies out there, I'll list three books that will take you a very high level for an amateur. I recommend reading them in this order. "Canon EOS Digital Rebel XTi/400D Guide to Digital SLR Photography by David D. Busch," "Understanding Exposure: How to Shoot Great Photographs with a Film or Digital Camera (Updated Edition) by Bryan Peterson," and "The Digital Photography Book by Scott Kelby."