ID: B00008UI0R-R391M33W5OK2LR-A2V3VLPNGQHV2T
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-WindTunnel-Canister-Electronic-S3765-040
ReviewerID: A2V3VLPNGQHV2T
ReviewerName: Lee B. Oneal "Instrumentation engineer"
Date: June 9, 2007
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 4.0
Title: Solid, sleek, effective vacuum but a small stomach
Content:
Good value, well-made, cool looks, terrific suction/air flow, heavy steel wand tube.  The adjustable tube height is a plus.  Friction fit attachments are not as good as the spring-loaded index pin type, but if you press and twist the accessory on tightly, it's NOT going to come off.  We never have a problem with it tipping over; it pivots and follows you around like a puppy.  Noise level is somewhat lower than others we've had, especially at low and mid suction settings which generally are plenty to get the dirt up.  The air-powered rotary brush stairs/furniture head is nice, but not as nice as the old Kenmore electrically-powered head.
Why we rate it a 4 instead of a 5:
1.  Only holds two miniature plastic cheap attachments, a crevice tool, and an upholstery brush.  O.K. in a pinch, but hang onto your old full size attachments--they may fit.  Our old Kenmore accessories did.
2.  The "automatic" height adjust of the carpet head is really a "fixed" height setting designed for medium nap carpet.  If you try to use it on indoor/outdoor carpeting (very low nap) the head tends to walk away from you at about 5 mph like a self-propelled mower. You actually have to pull back on the wand handle to restrain it. This is because the suction pulls the head into the carpet and the rotary brush digs in. It helps to use low suction on low nap. For most carpeting this is not a problem--air leaks through the looser nap and prevents a tight suction seal on the carpeting. A real(manual)height adjust would be helpful.
3.  We miss the "air bleed port" at the top of the wand that you find on many vacuums that allows you to vacuum throw rugs and drapes without sucking them into the nozzle.  Even on low suction setting this baby still tends to suck up throw rugs unless you hold them down with your foot.  An air bleed would also help control the suction when vacuuming low nap carpeting (see 2 above).
4.  MOST of all, the little dirt collection cup is a bore.  Yes it's easy to access the cup, and yes you can empty it in less than 15 seconds, BUT especially if you have pets with lotsa hair, you're going to be making numerous trips to the waste can.  Plus, you have to be comfortable with digging out hair and fuzz from the filter inside the cup every 2 or 3 dumps. Duhhh, it's why disposable bags were invented.  My wife doesn't think it's a big deal.  I do.  If the cup and filter were 3-4 times larger I guess I would give it a pass.  Still it would be a lot closer to perfection if it had a bag.