ID: B000EP5MOA-R1FORZ8B2ZNG4-A35ZA5A1DZ3GBM
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Green-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A35ZA5A1DZ3GBM
ReviewerName: Ahmed Badran
Date: October 8, 2005
Helpful: 12 of 12
Rating: 4.0
Title: Killer Gadget BUT a case is a MUST!!!!
Content:
Ok, I received my custom engraved 2GB white iPod nano yesterday and had about 4 hours playing with it and these are my ideas about it...(already have a 1 GB shuffle)
1. Packing (might not be a whole lot but it means something):
Very simple yet elegant packing, box and Apple sign look so classy on it. Once you open it, the iPod is safely embedded in hard card board where it fits snuggly. Now on the back of the iPod is a *small* piece of plastic with 5 lines (yes 5 lines) that gives you the how to instructions...Now I'd like ANY of the mp3 manufacturers out there who claim to be 'iPod killers' to show me the instructions on how to use their mp3 players...please give me a break...the manual for the nano is like 10 folded pages...very simple and to the point!
2. Look and feel: 
Not much to say here, everyone has seen this thing and yes it is VERY VERY small, you might think it's delicate however it's very hard and sturdy. As for the feel...this thing feels solid...not like some cheap mp3 player out there.
3. Scratchability and finger print-catchability:
Personally, I have NOT removed the plastic film all along the front because from the glossiness and shine of the surface it's clear that even tiny dust particles will scratch the surface if you try and wipe it off with anything even  with your fingers or a soft cloth.
Now the thing that everyone's been kinda ignoring it is the finger prints on the back, I had prepared myself by washing my hands before handling it (sounds crazy but I did it after I saw the shinyness of the back), after charging the iPod and putting some pictures on it, I held it in my hand for a little - about 30 minutes or so-(hey you know I've been patient for 3 charging hours, now's the time to play) I basically played a few songs, a few podcasts, then I was brave enough to flip the iPod over and look at the 'shiny' glossy back and oh my god, I was shocked at the amount of finger prints all over the back. This thing is a finger print MAGNET...now to clean the back I had to use a piece of cloth that came with Oakley glasses...it took me roughly 15 minutes to clean the back 'cautiously' such that the glossy back doesn't scratch while I'm cleaning the finger prints.
4. Charging:
1 hour and the battery sign was full, but since this was a first charge I left it 3 hours just to charge the battery completely.
5. Usability:
For being the first iPod I have with a screen it took me roughly 2 minutes to figure out how to navigate the menus back and forth and to play songs and to view the pictures...very simple and very straight forward.
Conclusion: Great gadget but having a case for it is a MUST if you want to save the great looks, otherwise don't regret losing the looks and ending up with just the great performance. I'm personally thinking of buying the double layer iSkin Duo for the iPod nano..and till then my iPod nano is going to be wrapped in the plastic it came in in the box, I don't want to spoil the looks of my cute iPod.