ID: B000SKQOSY-RSIPPYU91OKJL-A1QWQ2248WQ7C9
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-K100D-Digital-Camera-Reduction
ReviewerID: A1QWQ2248WQ7C9
ReviewerName: Adri Febrianto
Date: January 6, 2008
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: best for its class considering the price
Content:
I just recently made my jump to the DSLR camera after around five years being a pocket digicam user. My first digital camera was a very compact one megapixel, and then I changed it to the more megapixel count digicam which was Fuji 3.2 megs. Getting interested in using manual exposure made me ditch that and bought the Pentax Optio 550. It's my last pocket digicam before I bought this K100D Super.
What I can share about this great DSLR is this K100D Super is loaded with lots of features, such as Shake Reduction (a very useful features that allows me to take pictures  indoor without having to fire the flash so I could take advantage of those sun rays sneaking thru' the branches of tree outside my room's window), 11 autofocus point, AA battery (ever run out of juice when you're in the middle of your fun day ?), a display on top of the cam, digital filter and dust removal capability. You can have all of these features at a price that won't break your piggy bank.
In Indonesia where I live, a shop offered me a very good deal where this DSLR can be had for as low as around USD 540.
The picture quality is top-notch, very crisp and clear. I cranked the sharpness setting one step higher, and the sharpness of pictures I've taken never let me down, even in high ISO and low speed.
Combination of those three factors (features, price and pic-quality) made this cam the most suitable DSLR for amateur like me.
If you're looking for a DSLR that could bolster your career as a fine photographer, this cam might  not be right choice, as more advanced DSLR like K10D (also from Pentax), Nikon D200, or Canon 40D carry more features, perform better and provide better picture quality, but come with higher price tags.
This K100D is not without its downside. For action and/or sport photographer, this cam perform too slow when you use the continous mode. Very large print is somewhat not recommended as this cam only provides 6 megs. 
Ask yourself what is your need in using the DSLR for you. After you already have the clear answer to the question, then you can match your need to the feature of the cameras. 
Sorry if my English is bad, as it's not my native lang.