ID: B000NVXF30-R3TSFJH6GI5FWT-AF6A0DDUVY3DL
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Digital-Stabilization-14-42mm-40-150mm
ReviewerID: AF6A0DDUVY3DL
ReviewerName: Brian L "Brian L"
Date: November 30, 2007
Helpful: 30 of 30
Rating: 5.0
Title: Enjoyable Digital Experience
Content:
Some years ago, I switched from film SLR cameras to digital point and shoot with very satisfying results.  I finally decided to reenter the SLR market and after much online research, settled on the Olympus E510.
I have taken several hundred photos with this camera since I purchased it and have been quite pleased with the results.  
The reviews I read panned the camera's ability to focus in low light and I have found that to be a shortcoming, but unfortunately I can't compare that with other digital SLR cameras so I don't know if it is Olympus-specific or how Olympus compares to other cameras.  It still tends to get the job done for me.
Just a couple nights ago I had to use the camera with no flash at an indoor dance recital at a local high school.  Expecting low light, I manually set the ISO (film speed) to 1600 and managed to get some nice shots using no flash, a 300mm (equivalent) zoom, the anti-shake setting and hand-holding during dance routines.  The photos weren't perfect, but I got some keepers of my grandaughter, something I couldn't do with my point and shoot.
Beyond that, I added a circular polarizer which has really enhanced my outside photos.
By experimenting in flourescent and various outside lighting conditions, I also determined that white balance may be the most critical setting in the camera to arrive at proper exposure.  Generally, I have found that in outdoor photography, using the shade white balance setting yields better looking photos than using the automatic white balance setting.
There are many adjustments and settings available with this camera (infinitely more than in my old film SLR cameras) and it takes time to try them out to arrive at the best balance of settings, but the time is well-spent in my judgment.  The extensive control the camera gives the operator means that I will have many years of fun tinkering with settings.
The kit lenses which come with the camera are very nice and photo quality is excellent.
I have even tried (for the first time) using RAW format just to see what that is all about.  Frankly, I have found that if I get the white balance set correctly and use high resolution, my photos are so good that RAW format adjustments make no significant improvement over the original.  You can check that out for yourself by using the mode that saves both JPEG and RAW photos of each shot.  That is too space consuming for regular use as you will fill up your compactflash card (RAW files are 10 MB and highest quality JPEG files are about 6 MB).
One note -- the kit does not come with memory cards to store your photos.  So I was fortunate to have an old Olympus memory card until I was able to buy some high capacity compactflash cards.  Had I paid more attention, I might have bought a compactflash card at the outset as well.  You might also consider ordering a second battery as you can't just slide a couple AA's into it, you have to have an Olympus or compatible battery.  And it takes 5 hours to charge a battery using the kit charger, so you don't want to run out of power.  Compatible batteries cost about $20 at Amazon.
This is a very good value for a digital SLR overall.
SUPPLEMENT:
Since I reviewed this item, a very new extensive review at dpreview.  That is a great source to get an exhaustive explanation of the camera's capabilities and see how it compares to other cameras.
Also, setting white balance for particular conditions is a snap.  It involves a couple button presses and pointing the camera at a white sheet of paper or white cloth -- the white balance is based on the white object and so there is automatic and accurate correction for whatever the ambient light is, whether sun, shade, tungsten, or one of the many different temperatures of fluorescent.
Live View was a great asset in composing photos of my grandkids for Christmas cards. I put the camera on a tripod and used Live View to put the girls where I wanted them and fired away.  It is hard to believe that this feature isn't in all digital SLR cameras.