ID: B00009J5VZ-R5N5VACOJWDGR-A2IY49V4ARN4HC
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-White-M8946LL-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A2IY49V4ARN4HC
ReviewerName: K. Parry
Date: May 23, 2003
Helpful: 8 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: Positively awesome!
Content:
When I buy electronics, I usually look for items that serve multiple purposes (ie I waited for a DVD player until Playstation 2 came out so I'd be gettng two machines in one).  My husband and I have been looking to upsize from our current iMac since we can't upgrade the video card, and 8 mb just isn't enough for some of the programs we're running.  Since we'd been wanting an MP3 player, and we also wanted to be able to transfer the iMac's information onto an external hard drive, we figured this would serve both purposes well.Although I'm not much of an audiophile, I really love the clarity of the sound that the iPod offers- so if even I can tell the difference, it must be pretty drastic.  Transferring music to the iPod is really very simple: Launch iTunes, put in the CD's you want, select the songs you want iTunes to import, and when you're done with that, plug the iPod into the FireWire port, and it automatically sends the songs to the iPod.A word of warning to those with lower-end Power Macs: importing songs from a CD to iTunes can take a long time.  I'm currently running on an iMac with a 450 mhz processor, and each song takes from 1-2 minutes to import.  But despite this, sending the songs from iTunes to the iPod is extremely fast- I sent 59 songs from iTunes to the iPod, and it only took maybe 30 seconds.  From reading the instructions included with the iPod, transferring songs from the PC to the iPod is relatively simple too, although it takes a couple more steps to do so on a PC than it does on a Mac.The new design of the iPod is excellent as well.  The buttons are extremely touch-sensitive, but I have found that they are only sensitive with fingers, not objects such as pens.  I was able to adjust the volume and switch from song to song with my fingertips effortlessly, but when I tried to use the top of a pen, it wouldn't go.  I think this is a very helpful feature, especially if you're going to be carrying this in your pocket, purse, etc. Just as a word to the wise, if you are considering purchasing an FM transmitter to listen to the iPod in your car or personal stereo, a better option is to use a cassette adapter, like the ones that come with CD car adapters.  The FM transmitters have a lot of static, whereas the casette adapter replicates pretty closely the crystal-clear sound in the iPod itself. Some people may wonder why to purchase the iPod instead of a lower-end MP3 player and there are two major reasons: ease of use, and the large amount of drive space avaiable.  If you have an emergency situation where you need to transfer a large amount of information from one computer to another, the iPod is ideal: just connect the iPod to the computer and send the files to the iPod.  Of course, you can't open these files on the iPod itself, but it's a great extra hard drive in a pinch.