ID: B000GAAP8Q-RN545EQY0DIOG-A307V196PYOV8U
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-nano-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A307V196PYOV8U
ReviewerName: J. Gurza "LIFE LOVER"
Date: February 21, 2007
Helpful: 4 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Device!!!! A review ex mini user
Content:
WELL, i just bought about a week ago the ipod nano colors. in blue.
ok so i bought my first mp3 player 2 years ago. and i chose an ipod mini 4gb, a greaaat! thing!! the best thing i could ever invest in!...and about 2 weeks ago i sold it. i gathered some more bucks and went all the way definately for the ipod nano color. 
i always try to get the latest and hottest items. but i was never interested on the ipod nano, why?
well it was really slim, and it looked fragil, a friend of mine bought the ipod nano as soon as it was released, and honestly i didnt like it at all, besides it was made of plastic, thou it looks elegant, and sophisticated, it looked fragil to me, and easy to scratch. so i thought, why to spend all that much for something that is almost the same, except for the color screen!!!....
so, a couple of months ago my sister bought the ipod video, and i was so tempted, but again!, why spending that much if i wont use the video feature!....ok so
this friend of mine, offered me enough money for my ipod mini, and i thought it was a good deal since my investment would be about 30 dlls.
i wasnt looking after selling it. but the warranty is a GREAT deal to me, and since i had my ipod mini since almost 2 years ago, so it had no more warranty, i sold it.
and now it was time to chose....investing almost 100 dlls to get the ipod video 30gb...investing 30 dlls and getting the ipod nano or the nano colors....
ok so my ipod mini was a little bit bulky, and compared to nano, there's nothing else to say...and ipod video looks quite bulky compared again to nano, and since i wasnt interested on the video feature, ipod video was out.
so between ipod nano and ipod color....my opinion?
ipod color made of metal, just like minis so they dont get scratches that easy or at least they r less visible. but i was kind of bored of ipods with color
ipod nano..white or black looks elegant and classy, but u gotta be more carefull.
ipod color has memory flash
ipod nano has hard disc
i really dont care, since my ipod mini was as well hard disc and never failed, thou i dropped it accidentally a thousand times, and i excersice a lot and never had an issue.
then i heard the nano 1st generation and second generation...thats what made up my mind....ipods come and go so fast that i definately wanted the latest, so i chose color coz its a 2nd generation. and in 6 months wont be as old as the nano 1st generation.
first impression!!.....
NO KIDDIN ME!!!,  my dad went to buy it, and he came back with nothing in his hands!!!....oh yeah! the whole package was INSIDE  his pocket! yeah in his pocket! I was like! no kiddin!, so tinny!!
i opend it and as soon as i touched the ipod i thought it wasnt a real ipod!, is so tinny, at first i was against it, i didnt wanted such a small device (i know thats what old people think!) i was impressed! i thought it was really fragil! but hey as usual! you dont get to un-new something if you dont drop it! and guess what thats right! i opened it, it didnt even had songs in it and i dropped it!...nothing happened! and i said to my self! cool! im gonna like it!
so far i like it and im learning to love it, thou i still dont love it as i loved my mini!....
i didnt have anyproblems with itunes or anything since i had what i needed already.
id say,  to any NEW ipod user this will be the best thing ever! for ipod users, bah, isnt the last greatest thing ever. it does the same as my mini, but its of course lighter, and has "memory flash" and color screen.
until 2 days ago i learned something good for the "color screen" and i started to upload the cover picture of the albums. i still dont know how to upload "my pictures" but anyways i wont since it has 4gb memory, and i rather having music than pics...so yeah compared to the mini its the same, but you can see in a tiny screen the album cover, the games are the same but in color.
a new feature is a search feature, but it has a to z, but you have to use the wheel, to go from a to z, too much time, but a cool feature and ive used it. it also has a stopwatch, dunno remember if the mini had it, but i never used it if it did, and well the nano color has it, i havent use it thou..and it has sleeper, im sure the mini didnt have sleeper, it also has world clocks...and the secure feature, you can lock the screen.
but ive had some trouble finding covers, or skins. there is something i dont remember what i guess a transmitter, a bluetooth or a fm transmitter...hmm...dont remember but it works in almost every ipod, including the nano buut it doesnt in ipod nano color...and the skins, the cheap ones are for nano, ive only found iskin, for ipod nano color, but they r kinda expensive right now. and the lanyard made for nanos, doesnt work on this nano color. so its way more expensive than the nano lanyard. i bought an iskin for ipod, coz it was on sale, and yeah doesnt fit exaclty with the nano color. the hold button, the jack, the usb connction, doesnt match perfectly but i extended the cuts, with scissors lol, just a little bit about 1mm or less.
but hey its a 2nd generation.....whatever! lol!.....
so here is my review i hope it helps.
if you dnt have an ipod....buy this one is awesome! ipods are awesome!!!
if you have a mini (and dont give a dime for size) and has warranty, keep the mini. unless u r buying the video. at least the video has a different feature that worths spending all that money.
anyways i hope it helps! im happy with my new ipod, no problems so far. and easy to handle.
good luck