ID: B000063YA4-R3O689TRDFWGRT-AK1YUM5FKS0J2
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Sigma-SD9-3-54MP-Digital-Camera
ReviewerID: AK1YUM5FKS0J2
ReviewerName: Peter A. Stavrakoglou
Date: January 2, 2005
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: The sharpest images you can produce
Content:
I'm a bit late in writing this review since I've had my SD9 for one year.
The image quality of photos using the SD9 can be quite stunning.  The level of sharpness achieved by the Foveon sensor is amazing - it can resolve detail that Bayer sensor cameras (all other digital cameras fall into this group) simply cannot.  Couple this camera with one of Sigma's "EX" lenses, particularly the super-sharp 50mm EX macro lens, and you'll love the results.  I enjoy macro photography and this camera is excellent at macro photography.  
I'm certainly not in the league of a real photographer as I'm just a casual type who enjoys taking pictures.  As they say, the proof is in the picture and I've seen the proof!  Forget about the megapixel rating and the fact that the Sigma is "only" 3.4 MP.  The Foveon sensor has 3.4 million photosensors for each primary color - that's 10.2 total MP - while a 6 MP Bayer sensor has 6 MP for all three primary colors.  
Why a four star rating rather than five?  This camera is not without it's issues, like all cameras.  The SD9 is not a very good low-light performer.  If you need ISO speeds faster than 100 then the SD9 may not be for you.  High ISO shots are noisy although you can get very usable high ISO photos if the conditions are ideal.  The SD10 addressed this issue.  The SD9 does not have a built-in flash but those units are not suitable for serious flash work anyway.  This camera can only use Sigma SA mount lense so the choice in lenses is not as wide as for a Canon, Nikon, or Minolta user but Sigma makes some very, very good lenses and they certainly offer more choices than I can avail myself of.  If you want in-camera jpg files, look elsehwere.  The SD9 shoots only in RAW format and you have to process the photos.  This is actually the best way to shoot, there is so much that can be done with a RAW file that one cannot do with a TIFF or jpg.  The Sigma Photo Pro software is a gem of an application that is extremely powerful and easy to use. 
Again, look at the results and you'll see that this camera is an extremely capable performer.