ID: B0012Y6HC8-ROU9CERAM7RC8-A34T3KYXUFPXVM
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-XSI-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A34T3KYXUFPXVM
ReviewerName: Aditya D. Gaddam "pixelfaction.com"
Date: November 2, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Worth every penny
Content:
I have had a Canon A620 for about 2 years before this. It was an awesome P&S, but it died after going through a whole lot of pain and agony that I put it through (sandy beaches, construction sites, oily garages). I decided to upgrade to a DSLR this time around and had been researching them for about 3-4 months. I was set on buying a D60 for a while and then the Rebel XS came out so I started comparing features and then saw that for a little bit more, I could get the XS which would have Live View, AEB and some other cool stuff. But at that point, the Xsi was only about 30 bucks away, so I dropped the cash and I must say I AM VERY HAPPY with my purchase. Nothing to really say about Amazon, their shipping was ridiculous as usual (came in exactly 2 days after I ordered - wish other places would mean 2-day when they say 2 day shipping). The camera itself is a dream to use. The Live View makes a big difference if you are sitting it on a tree stump or a tripod and composing with a little bit more stability. The camera feels solid in your hands and the lenses take a beating (actually hit the kit lens against a door once when turning around). The grips on the kit lens seem like plastic yet somehow feel rubbery - but in the end, my fingers love em and I haven't had any problems with prolonged contact while trying to get focus/zoom juuust right. 
The rubber grips on the Xsi aren't exactly cushion-y, but the texture on the grips makes the camera body feel more secure in your hands (definitely worth the extra 30 or so bucks). You also get the proximity sensor for the LCD (turns it off if its close to your face) and the extra 2 MP (more cropping!). 
That said, the camera strap leaves you wanting for something better. It looks nice, but its a little small if you are a big guy and its not padded at all so it feels a little tough on your neck - so factor in some extra spending money for a good strap and/or a good bag.
If you are buying this as a first time DSLR user, its a good investment (you can of course settle for something less... no problem with that, but you might as well drop the money for the best in this price range of DSLRs). Be prepared to get a LOT of bad pictures in your first couple of weeks with a DSLR as you get used to judging your shots on the review LCD after your take em, but after you do... the extra speed and better quality lenses are completely worth it. 
P.S. Don't underestimate that wide angle kit lens - you get some amazing shots, especially when you are dealing with landscapes.