ID: B001D0E4CQ-R1BYMXM2YUZTA6-A2V2AWBAQ45ZX4
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-120-Internet-Media-Tablet
ReviewerID: A2V2AWBAQ45ZX4
ReviewerName: snike3 "Tim"
Date: April 29, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 2.0
Title: Fine if you want to fight to get things working...
Content:
I bought an Archos 5 160GB from Amazon just over a year ago.  I got it because Archos is the only manufacturer of decent sized hard drive media players (I have an iPod classic, those are NOT decent sized).  Flash players simply don't have enough space and you have to spend a small fortune to even get 64GB of space on them (at least Creatives have expansion slots).  Who wants to be constantly swapping out your music collection for what you "might" be in the mood for?  I'd rather have all my music all the time so both my wife and I can be satisfied with the selection.  That's not even considering if I wanted to have any videos on there...
Anyway, when I got my A5, it wouldn't charge fully.  I sent it back to Archos and 3 and half weeks later it came back to me with NO CHANGE.  I contacted them again, they said to send it back.  So, I did...  This time a different player came back to me.  It was a scuffed up 120GB (not the 160GB) that had a non-functional touch screen.
I was fun trying to even convince support that they had sent the wrong player cause their documents said they sent a 160GB.  Anyway, they finally agreed to give me a pre-paid to send it back.  So 6 months after buying the player I had a player that charged.  Unfortunately that's not the end of it.
First, let me say that Archos firmware is terrible.  The layout and graphics are decent, but the actual internals are horrid.  It frequently crashes/stalls for no reason...  Connecting to a wireless network, switching from audio to video files, changing the background, etc.  There are other issues that I will continue with...
FUN WITH SYNCING:
I tried transferring all my music (approx 65GB) over using it as a Windows Media Device (aka MTP mode).  No program can finish a sync successfully (Window Media Player, Songbird, MediaMonkey).  It dies part way through.  After extensive discussion with Archos support, I was able to determine that the MTP protocol my be to blame for this.  My music is on a Samba share and at some point, the MTP protocol triggers an error in the Samba server and the MTP protocol cannot recover itself.
So I gave up on MTP...  Switched the player to hard drive mode.  Tried transferring all the music over at once and running the library update function.  Well, that results in only about 50% of the music being added to the library.  Well, more time talking to support...  They let me know there's some limits on the number of files per folder.  Something like 999 files (maybe it was 9999, can't remember).  Anyway, I was within the limit and changing it around didn't fix the problem.  So I had to load sections of music at a time in order for all of it to show up.  Eventually I was able to figure out that when MTP fails, if I run chkdsk for a few hours on the A5 from Windows and then redo the MTP sync, I can eventually get all the songs on that way.
FUN WITH THE INTERNET:
All of a sudden a few weeks ago, I stopped being able to connect to the internet from the A5.  I could access UPnP stuff in my network, but nothing on the internet.  Well, after debugging with 3 different access points and tons of settings, it turns out that something in my gateway had changed and the firewall was blocking all outbound requests from the A5.  It could use DHCP and my DNS successfully, but the traffic going to the internet would be dropped.  I ended up having to add a specific firewall rule to allow all traffic from the A5.  Didn't really feel like spending more time figuring out what else they had programmed poorly.
FUN WITH VIDEO:
Well, if you're looking at this player, you know that you have to buy plugins to get AC3 decoding and HD playback for videos.  Since I had a working player (internet and music), I figured I'd get a few DVD's on there to take on a trip with me.  Well, I rip my DVD's to a hard disk for my Media Center, so they have DVD resolution with AC3 audio.  The files are in XVID at 2600kbps because that's the codec and lowest rate that gave me the quality I wanted in an MPEG-4 AVI file.  Since I didn't want to have to keep two copies of the AVI (one with stereo sound, the other with AC3), I purchased the Cinema Plugin.  The purchase was an experience because it took three different support people to get the correct media player registration in their system since it had been RMA'd.
You would think everything would be fine... NOPE!  Video looks fine, audio sounds fine...  Except for the fact that they're really out of sync.  Not just bad dubbing out of sync.  Can't watch the video out of sync.  I know the movie files are good.  They playback correctly on an original xbox with XBMC, Windows 7 Media Center 32bit, Windows 7 Pro 64bit, openSUSE 32bit, and even a eeepc with windows XP pro on it.  However, Archos support says that it's the files (which were ripped/encoded using different programs)...  Even though they've already confirmed that MPEG-4 AVI's are the ideal format.  Archos support said that stereo is ideal for sound and that I should use that...  Then why do you even offer the Cinema Plugin?!
FUN WITH MUSIC:
I've noticed a few things with music.  If you don't use Windows Media Device mode to sync the player, you cannot modify ID3 tags and have the player update the information in it's database.  If you remove a file, it stays in the player's database.  So in short, don't sync the player out of Windows Media Device mode.  If you embed the album art into your music files expect SLOW response out of the media player.  Basic navigation becomes choppy, switching songs takes longer, and you even get occasional pauses in music near the beginning of the song.  As soon as I had MediaMonkey remove the album art from the tags and put it in the folder with the songs, everything started running MUCH faster.
You're probably thinking this is just one person's experience with a bad player...  It not...  I have a friend with the exact same player.  He was able to confirm all of the problems that I've been having with the exception of the internet issue.  However, we tried his player on my network and it did the same thing.
Fortunately, I'm a software engineer with degrees in computer and electrical engineering, and have the technical background to debug most of these problems without contacting support.  Can't even imagine if my parents had been having problems like these.  It just annoys me that companies can get away with putting out devices with sub-par software/firmware. 
To summarize this short novel of a review...
It'll be a cold day in h*** before I buy and/or recommend another Archos product.  Other companies need to bring back hard drive media players.  What happened to the hard drive players from Creative, Toshiba, iRiver, and even JetAudio?