ID: B0012Y88QQ-RNCKVL2T2XEU5-A10RSB4VN247I
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A10RSB4VN247I
ReviewerName: expen
Date: October 18, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 22
Rating: 2.0
Title: only ok
Content:
The eos mount is apparently a very flexible mount, and can be used with multiple other lenses - for example, there is a nikon to eos mount which exists to allow one to use nikon lenses on canon cameras.  It is specifically for this reason that I bought the camera (I also wanted a somewhat smaller slr than the one I am currently  using, a Nikon D50).  The Nikon to eos mount worked quite well, and the camera was able to meter through the lens, and the autofocus confirm seemed to work (of course, the lenses are all manual - but the light goes off to indicate when focus has been achieved).  However, I was disappointed that the focus confirmation was not very accurate - photos seemed not perfectly sharp.  When I put the Nikon lens (an old 50mm f1.2) back on the D50, the focus confirmation was much more accurate.  Perhaps equally important (?more important?), the overall color and "feel" of the pictures was definitely better on the old Nikon D50 - they seemed colder on the Canon.  Also, the default setting on the Canon, when using its kit lens, seemed to somehow underexpose the pictures.  Certainly, it is possible that I could have adjusted things considerably on the camera, and possibly helped things out some; however, I did not have the patience for that, and frankly, did not think the overall feel of the pictures was as good on the Canon as on my old Nikon.
I was very sad to do it, as I was quite excited about the prospect of using lots of old lenses, but ultimately the cameras output did not seem to justify the price, and so I returned it.  A HUGE thumbs up, though, to Amazon, for the absolutely painless way they assisted me with everything - the whole experience with them was outstanding.
This is actually not the first time I have been a little disappointed with Canon output - perhaps it all comes down to personal preferences, but the pictures out of my Nikon just seem a little better.  Too bad the Nikons are a bit more expensive, and that I cannot use other (non- Nikon mount) lenses on them.