ID: B001FA1NDC-R1V9MIFPG94YP5-A8DXSKM7B82V4
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Green-Generation-Previous-Model
ReviewerID: A8DXSKM7B82V4
ReviewerName: Guanxiong Mao "Gman"
Date: October 5, 2008
Helpful: 12 of 15
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great MP3 Player
Content:
I'm really impressed by the build quality of the nano. Before this, I used a 2nd gen dell jukebox which had a 20GB capaciy(which was also all aluminum) and I really liked that device because the all aluminum design made it rock solid (though not water proof unfortunately). The only reason I'm getting the nano is because the dell's battery was dying but the device looks just like new except for the few small chips where I kind of dropped it on the sidewalk while jogging. 
This feels just as solid as my old Dell, except this weighs under 1/4 as much. The color of these nanos really are amazing. I wasn't sure whether the photos were digitally enhanced (ie passed through photoshop to increase saturation) because they seemed so fantastic. I went for a conservative black, and I'm almost kind of regretting this because now I know the other colors really are as gorgeous as they look in the ad photos. Basically, these shiny smooth aluminum babies make the dell dj look like coarse rubbish (maybe it's just good paint?)
I'm new to the ipod interface. This is my first ipod and at least compared to my old Dell, this is way better. The coverflow really isn't that useful except as a distraction for when you ride public transportation. The color screen though really is gorgeous and extremely detailed; makes the text so much more readable. The scroll wheel did feel a little sluggist to me as well; basically a tad insensitive to the touch so the scrolling lags at times. This however should be easily fixable with a firmware update.
To address the cover flow complains: let me clarify one thing: the ipod doesn't engage cover flow as easily as some people claims. If you set it down flat on a table, it will not go into cover flow mode; only if you turn it sideways but with the screen still facing forward (or maybe backward) will it go into coverflow. In other words, Apple DIDN'T design the nano to jump to coverflow for all directions but vertical. Seriously though, you don't need to change volume all that often. I don't really build play lists with Limp Bizkit and Mozart right after one another so usually I only adjust the volume like once or twice an hour and even then, it's usually to turn the volume down to save battery (my old Dell had a way shorter battery life). If you're fidgeting with the volume so much that the trouble of taking the thing out and turning it upright is a huge annoyance, then I think you need to get the first gen ipod touch 16 gb for 40 dollars more than the nano because you obviously need more distraction than a device designed to play music.
In Summary: terrifically solid build quality, spectacular color and outward design; good software interface with few minor problems; basically a surprisingly good device for a reasonable price (frankly, given that this is an Apple product and the overall quality of the device, I would have expected it to sell 250-300). Ultra light, ultra attractive mp3 player for an affordable price.