ID: B001FA1NZU-R1UID9MMY7266I-A1SPTL5GTIUHLT
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-touch-Generation-Previous-Model
ReviewerID: A1SPTL5GTIUHLT
ReviewerName: Mike in FL "iTouch-less in FL"
Date: April 30, 2009
Helpful: 22 of 26
Rating: 1.0
Title: Really Poor Battery Performance Sinks iPod Touch 2G
Content:
All of the neat lights & whistles in the world become irrelevant if the battery life of a device can't support the functionality.  Amazon.com was great in its customer support--providing prepaid shipping for the return and, I assume, a full refund once they receive the product.  Now, on to comments on the product.  
First, Apple seems to believe that its products are self-explanatory.  There is not even a "Quick Start" guide included with the product--everything is online.  Maybe folks who are on their third or fourth or n-th iPod can learn as they go, but those of us who are new to iPods need support and guidance.  Perhaps, Apple doesn't care about expanding its market (to us).  But, what led us to return this item was the really, really bad battery life--consistent with the vast majority of blogs on the Touch 2G.  Case in point, with about 20% battery life left, iPod was shut down for the night (fully shut down, not just sleeping).  The next morning, "critically low battery" was how we were greeted.  And, we had not even graduated to video downloads--just CD rips and internet surfing.  Further, each time we put the iPod on a charger, it would power up--kind of counter-productive to recharging the battery.  In one case, it glowed like a night light for the entire time it was charging, and the next morning still showed "low batt."  Nothing in the online owners' manual suggested that this was normal--or, for that matter, what to expect while charging.  This goes back to my opening comments about owner support.  Why does Apple keep useful information so secret?  
I bought the iPod Touch, rather than an iPhone, because I didn't want my use of neat functions (fun & games) to leave me with a dead cell battery (not good, in case of emergency).  My experience with the iPod Touch 2G has confirmed this thinking--a cell phone is for making calls & (maybe) texting; if you want toys, get another device.
Conclusions:  At best, give Apple some time to improve the battery performance of the iPod Touch 2G.  Without battery life, you've got nothing!  At worst, move on to another toy.