ID: B0019KOFEC-R1OCSIGFV2WUBP-A1L0R34XJ98P7S
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Eureka-3684F-Lover-Mighty-Mite
ReviewerID: A1L0R34XJ98P7S
ReviewerName: Sylvia
Date: September 15, 2009
Helpful: 11 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Canister Vac
Content:
We've had this vacuum for about a month and it is really great.  It has great sucking power, is really easy to use, is lightweight, and is an overall good design.  We're really happy with it and it's been the perfect choice for us.
We have a small 1-bedroom house with no carpet and a 100-pound dog that sheds.  Prior to getting this vacuum we had to sweep twice per day and sweeping wasn't great as it tended to send the dog-hair tumbleweeds scooting across the floor in all directions.  But I loved the ease of using a broom to get around and under furniture and the lightness of a broom as I have back problems and so tend to avoid upright vacuums when possible.  
When I started looking for lightweight vacuum choices, most were the "bagless" variety.  After a little research, I concluded that those are a really poor choice for someone with dust allergies, such as myself, as it seemed emptying the bagless vacuums tended to expose one to dust and end up with it on your person.  Not good.  One of those ideas that's good in concept (never pay for bags again!) but bad in practice (exposed to dust).  Once I ruled out bagless vacs that really narrowed the field for lightweight vacs.  I also really liked that this vac has a HEPA filter, again for the allergies, as vacuums without it can spit out a lot of dust while vacuuming.  Again, not good.
So this little vac is just great.  It is really lightweight, but I rarely need to pick up the canister.  The wheels work really well and it just scoots across the floor.  And one end of the cord wrap underneath pivots so one turn and the entire cord is loose. The wand and floor attachment is really lightweight so it's no burden to push it around.  And it swivels easily in all directions.  It is so flexible I am able to clean all the way under a queen size bed from one side of the bed. Take that dust bunnies!  I never have a problem getting it to where I want to go.
And it's got really good sucking power.  Enough power that if you go over a bath mat or area rug it sucks it right up off the ground.  But wait!  One of the cool features I didn't see in any of the other reviews!  Say you're vacuuming your hard floor and you want to vacuum an area rug without sucking it off the floor.  There's this cool little adjustment right where your hand goes where you can open a hole in the wand and it reduces the sucking power enough that you can vacuum that area rug without sucking it off the floor.  And when you're done with the rug, a little twist on the adjustment piece and you're back to full sucking power.  Very cool.  I have occasionally sucked my shirt tail into that little hole when it's open, but no harm done.  There's also no edge issues - a space between the floor head and the wall - it gets right up against the edge, at least on hard surfaces.
All the tools fit onboard other than the pet attachment, which I've never needed to use.  So the crevice tool and then a little combo tool -one side with a brush and one without - both fit on the canister.  And the wand part telescopes so you can make it different lengths without having to deal with a separate wand addition.  Very cool.  We can vacuum our entire (small) house from one plug so the cord is long enough for us.
So there are some cons but not important enough to outweigh the pros and thus the five stars.  The plastic tube going into the canister is the part most likely to break or wear out first.  It's not flimsy, but just seems like it's in some danger of breaking and wish it felt a little sturdier.  I'd have gladly paid the extra $1.57 or whatever it would take to make it thicker.  On the combo tool, the presence of the non-brush half gets in the way at times, such as when I'm trying to vacuum windowsills.  You have to figure out what's just the right angle to get the brush half in the corner without the other half getting in the way.  Storing the vac is a little ungainly, but we slip it into our coat closet and that works.  Just don't expect to tuck it in a corner because between the plastic tube and the wand and floor attachment it tends to want to go in various directions.