ID: B0011FY8WE-R31UH4682H4VXF-A1PPMZZVSE3267
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Stiebel-Tempra-29-Electric-Tankless
ReviewerID: A1PPMZZVSE3267
ReviewerName: D. Covert "d,c"
Date: July 7, 2008
Helpful: 22 of 23
Rating: 5.0
Title: tempra 29
Content:
i bought this to replace the broken water unit in my oil furnace. i must admit i am no good at intstalling anything myself so i had to hire someone to do it for me. finding one company to install the whole thing was a real pain in the butt. i had to find a electrician to run the wires and install the 3 50 amp breakers. then i had to get a full service plumber to install the piping. i used lucas plumbing. they did a very good job. as for the unit itself. i really love it it works just as you would expect. i have not had a chance to use the unit in the winter. i i had it installed in the summer and i live in pennslyvania. the cold incoming water temp in temp in the summer is 75 degrees and about 40 in the middle of the winter. i will post again in the winter to let everyone know how well in works with very gold water coming in. i would definitly recommend the unit to anyone i really like it. just one very important warning!!! you must measure the water flow on all your faucets to make sure you get at least .87 gallons per minute. if you dont you will have no hot water on that faucet until you turn on a second faucet because the unit has a .87 gpm minimum turn on flow through it for it to turn on. check the flow rate during the day time between 1pm to 6pm. that seems to be when the pressure is the lowest. i checked all my faucets at 9pm before i bought it and they all filled a 1 gallon jug in under a minute however. i didnt know the flow was slower during the middle of the day. so. it turned out my faucet in the kitchen was clogged and had a bad valve and had to be replaced. now the new faucet works fine and i measure almost twice as much water coming out of it per minute, anyway so far i really like the unit. i think its awesome. i will get back to this review in the winter to give you the update . Bill ---- update after winter.----- the unit costs about $8 per month to run in the warmest months and $40 per month on the coldest months. my 2 children take baths and my wife and i use the shower. i did not see an increase in my electric bill except in jan and feb. also i can only run one shower at a time in jan and feb. but during all the other months i can run 2 showers at once. i am very happy with it. it is not expensive to run and i highly recommend it! it works as adversed. i would definitly recommend it to a friend!