ID: B001G4VSPA-R37DRW2LMP45NZ-A3Q4TYJVAM4IRM
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Bionaire-BH3699-UM-Micathermic-Flat-Panel-Radiator
ReviewerID: A3Q4TYJVAM4IRM
ReviewerName: Omar Siddique
Date: February 15, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Quiet, effective, good size.
Content:
This heater works well and quietly for heating my large bedroom.
I was looking for a way to make some parts of my home cozier without spiking my utility spending (or my CO2 emissions), this unit did the trick.  I use it in my large (20x18') vaulted-ceiling master-bedroom.  It takes a short while to make the room notably warmer, working best with the door closed.
Unlike other heaters I considered, this unit is skinny and can sit close to a wall without taking much floor-space.  The anti-tip seems to work-- when I move the running unit, it shuts off.  The outside grill isn't likely to set things on fire, though it does get hot enough to burn skin (as expected, it's metal in proximity to a heat source).  
The  bottom few inches of the grill stay relatively cool.  My cat hangs out near the heater to warm up but doesn't investigate it too closely, but the bottom half doesn't seem hot enough to scorch his fur if he did get curious (no hotter than the surround of a gas fireplace).
The unit seems "tightly" manufactured, as it only makes one or two ticks or clicks as it warms up or cools down after running-- nearly silent versus other radiator style heaters I've used.  A faint hum or buzz is audible when it's running.
I'd tried other types of heaters and found heater-fan type units too noisy and too hot in one small area, while quartz heaters were quieter but a burn hazard for my cat and less effective for heating up the large open space of my vaulted-ceiling bedroom.
I was able to get those desired results at no added heating cost by turning down my central furnace by a couple of degrees, and using this heater mornings and evenings to keep my master-bedroom toasty.
As others have noted, on first use the unit emits a chemical "new car smell" as the plastic is heated.  I ran my unit in the garage for a number of hours to off-gas that scent, but there was still a hint of it after that.  The "new" plastic smell was gone within a day or two of additional use.
No complaints after using the unit for almost 2 months.  Other than the "new" smell, If I had to search for quibbles, I'd make the temperature-control (a dial on the side) easier to read when standing in front of the heater.
Highly recommended.