ID: B0011NH5J4-R2TBDHTFY6FMC0-AKR3AI51MITWF
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VGN-AR790U-17-inch-Processor-Ultimate
ReviewerID: AKR3AI51MITWF
ReviewerName: Stephen B. Shedden "Savagedragon"
Date: April 14, 2008
Helpful: 8 of 15
Rating: 2.0
Title: A Dissappointment  from Sony
Content:
This is my third Sony and probably my 10th laptop. It is by far my biggest dissappointment in a Laptop and a Sony (especially for the price).If I didnt have to suffer a 15% restocking fee it would be on it way back and I would be buying the comparable HP model Circuit City put on sale this weeek for $434 less, even accounting for no tax and free shipping. The only difference on this model is faster processor speed.  Here are my issues! First the computer has problems with all the drop down menus. It wont scroll properly; the only way you can get it to accept a selection is by holding down the control key and hitting enter. This includes opening up the screensaver menu and the sound menu. The screensaver menu will keep defaulting to Windows Logo and the sound menu keeps defaulting to a volume of 0.Speaking of speakers excuse the pun, compared to my Toshiba which this unit is supposed to be replacing the sound level is extremely low and very hard to hear.External speakers are going to have to be a must, even with headphones it is hard to hear movie playback.  Although this computer is setup with 4MB of Ram it only reads 3MB because it is configured for 32-bit operation instead of 64, a waste of 1MB of installed memory.These are the issues I have found after 4 days of use. I'm afraid to see what else is in store. If it gets any worse I may decide to return it in any case and absorb the $$270.00 loss. I mainly purchased this unit for the Blue-Ray player which works fine and for the 17" display which works fine unlike the results encountered by another reviewer. Stay from this unit, you can find comparable features at a cheaper price from other manufacturers such as HP. I have never owned an HP but I would certainly consider it after this experience.