ID: B001I902HS-RGUEHO0DDNCZS-A19128J0O7ANCQ
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Panasonic-MC-CG885-OptiFlow-Lightweight-Canister
ReviewerID: A19128J0O7ANCQ
ReviewerName: Eric Backer
Date: February 10, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: I really like my Panasonic MC-CG855
Content:
I've had the Panasonic MC-CG855 canister vacuum for a couple of months now and really like it. I have to admit that I'm using the floor brush and turbo brush from my previous vacuum (a Bissell bagless Revolution that I hated), but with those additions the Panasonic is pretty close to being perfect. It's light, reasonably quiet, has good suction, and seems well-made. The bag is a little small, but my dog's long hair is really compressed into it. I don't feel like it will be all that expensive for bags. I love the switch on the handle - right where it should be. I was a bit worried that because it is almost all plastic that it would attract dust (like the Bissell) but that hasn't happened too much and not at all with the hose. As some of the reviews mention, it doesn't track all that well, but the tradeoff of being able to scoot it any direction is worth it. I did tip mine over once, but that hasn't been an issue. Being able to turn off the floor brush as you move from throw rug to hardwood floors is handy, although I put on the floor brush to do large areas. It needs a turbo brush for upholstery (or better yet Panasonic should make an electric one), but with those 2 additions it cleans everything quite well. You can unhook the floor attachment without bending over. Everything works as it should and there isn't anything that looks like it will break anytime soon. I love the cord retraction button - it makes it much less of a hassle to get it out and do something quick.
The Panasonic probably isn't as nice as some of the thousand dollar vacuums, but it does a great job - in fact I'm not sure that it could be significantly better. My house is cleaner and I don't dread getting out the vacuum cleaner anymore.