ID: B001D8S9E2-R2VIVE5C46H917-A3IBEJP4L3TY9
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB466LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A3IBEJP4L3TY9
ReviewerName: Praet "-Praet"
Date: January 13, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: Ideal performance for size.
Content:
I have never owned a Macintosh product of any kind. The 13 inch MacBook fit all the specifications I wanted in a laptop including size and battery life. I was wary to make the change but the transition has so far been smooth. This includes my own customization of the laptop preferences and finding applications that fulfill my needs when the ones that come with it do not.
The screen works great. I have no problems with the glossiness in any way. Once the machine is on, I pay no attention to reflections most of the time. This may be due to the fact that I tend to avoid using it in lighting situations that would provide the most reflections. The auto-dim/brighten feature due to light sensitivity is nice. I am not sure it has a significant effect and it does seem overly responsive to small light changes. 
Most displayed images and texts are sharp and colorful enough for my taste but it seems like some people may be annoyed by it a little bit. There does appear to be some slight blurring of text at certain positions on the screen, especially 'l's, 't's and 'f's where there is the horizontal line on each of those letters. There does not appear to be that line for 'l's in the default font but in some fonts it is there and you may notice the slight blurring.
Also, the max resolution of 1280 by 800 was at first surprising. I was expecting at least one more step up in resolution but it is still suitable for how I use it and the screen size. As I think about it now, an extra step up may make it more difficult to see clearly on because of the screen size. I do not think of the screen size as a con, if I did I would have gotten the 15 inch MacBook.
The trackpad works wonderfully in the native OS and I have no problems with the use of the gestures. The gestures do not feel in any way awkward or cumbersome to me. I have never had experience with that kind of interaction on a trackpad and the gestures feel reasonable for the actions that they perform. I find that the trackpad is the most accurate one I have used among a few laptops. This includes response to my own changes in finger movement speed, the tap clicking instead of using a button, and the scrolling gesture which I use the most among the gestures available.
The sound quality from the built-in speakers is fine. I cannot even find the speakers as of now. If you want high quality, get some headphones. Also, the microphone works surprisingly well. Again, if you want high quality, get your own microphone. 
I cannot comment much on the built in camera as I have barely used it. It does appear to work satisfactorily if you want to use it for webcam chat programs.
I have used Bootcamp to install the Windows Vista Ultimate 32-bit version on a separate partition. The partitioning and installation process is easy. The only issue I have with Bootcamp is the fact you cannot adjust the size of a partition once it has been made. If you only use Bootcamp and want to change the Windows partition size, you must delete the partition and restart the whole process. There may be a third-party application that you could use but I personally think it should be a feature within Bootcamp.
The trackpad is significantly harder to use in Windows, but keep in mind this is a step down from what I consider to be the most responsive trackpad I have ever used. When I say 'significantly', I mean only that I can tell a difference. It is not an extreme difference. It is still quite usable. You do not get to use of most of the gestures as they are dependent on features within OS X Leopard; though the scroll gesture is still there and works well enough.
 
The Windows install was for playing games only. I did not want to leave them behind simply because I switched to a Macintosh. I also will most likely be using it to run SAS which is a statistical software. I am not sure if it will work or not at this point, but I am hopeful considering everything else works fine. The drivers are alright except for the 9400M graphics card not having newer drivers released by nVidia last I checked and some audio stuttering every few minutes. This does not represent a strong annoyance to me as it only lasts a few seconds. The stuttering is at a rapid rate so not much noise gets lost to it. Any voices are still audible and understandable as is the music and other effects. 
The graphics are surprisingly good. Left 4 Dead and Bioshock both run fairly well. I have most options put to their highest settings except for the resolution and some texture settings. This is to ensure a smooth framerate which the MacBook is capable of in those two games. Do not expect max settings in newer games when purchasing this laptop. I have no problem with this. I am not the type of person that needs the best graphics. One final thing, games take a lot of energy and the battery life is greatly reduced when playing them. This is the case with all laptops and you will want to plug it in if you play graphic intensive games.
In general, I really enjoy my purchase of the 13 inch MacBook. Of course it does look nice but the main plus is how slim it is for the performance I get out of it. The battery life is excellent. Most features of the laptop are perfectly satisfactory or exceed my expectations. I do not recommend it for power users who want the best performance, people that have tons of peripherals (it only has two USB ports), or hardcore gamers that expect top quality graphics capabilities. It seems to be an excellent general use laptop but may not be the best choice for those who have a specialized need.