ID: B0017YUX5A-R2MAPDGKJ0OSNI-A2P6JGHHGO0WKQ
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3670-WindTunnel-Anniversary-Canister
ReviewerID: A2P6JGHHGO0WKQ
ReviewerName: T. Gasko
Date: August 27, 2008
Helpful: 30 of 39
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best Hoover Canister Vac EVER!
Content:
The Hoover Windtunnel Anniversary Canister Vacuum is Hoover's answer to Miele.  Designed to look and perform like Miele, a high priced German brand, this Hoover has it all.  For starters, the Hoover uses a sealed-system, meaning the dirt cannot go anywhere except into the bag.  The disposable bag is made of synthetic material, like a Miele Intensive Clean Plus bag, and together with the True Hepa filter on the exhaust end, the Hoover delivers CLEAN AIR back into the room.  The five speed electronic speed control delivers gentle suction for the drapes, and high suction for rugs and floors.  The Windtunnel Power Nozzle is the real standout here.  It deep cleans carpets and rugs without dispersing debris backwards.  Picking it all up in one stroke of the 'magic wand'.  The wand quickly releases from the Power Nozzle, for edge cleaning ease like no other.  The on-board furniture/dusting tool and crevice nozzle are a joy to use, and store out of sight under the cleaner lid (they won't fall off).  The full bag indicator tells when to change the Hepa filter bag (two are included with machine).  I guess I like the Hose Handle best of all.  It features an ergonomic grip making it steer and turn like a dream, and an on/off switch for the Power Nozzle is also in the hand grip (won't tangle the fringe of throw rugs if you shut off the brush).  The "Pet Hair" attachments also works brilliantly on stairs and mattresses (and car interiors), while the bare floor brush makes quick work of wood and bare floors, without scratching.
Hoover started business in 1908, with their classic Upright Vacuum cleaner with motor-driven brush.  Hoover's heart, along the way, was never really in canister vacs.  To celebrate their 100th anniversary, the new Hoover Windtunnel was conceived.  The engineering skill and genius are very much evident in the quality and design of this vacuum.  I expect to have my new Hoover for many, many years of dust-free enjoyable cleaning.