ID: B001D0E4CQ-R2SOM70NTHRE6A-A1DZ1A6FIFOP5L
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-120-Internet-Media-Tablet
ReviewerID: A1DZ1A6FIFOP5L
ReviewerName: Alan Jacks "Alan"
Date: February 8, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 2.0
Title: Still looking for my Internet tablet
Content:
I have used my Archos 7 for 3 months now and remain with mixed emotions.  The screen is big and brilliant, battery life is good, the sound is decent and most important to me, the Opera browser supported many more web pages than I had expected.  
But the wireless connectivity is very poor.  It works great within 50 feet of my modem and pretty much nowhere else in my house.  The user interface is also very raw and has a version 1.0 air about it.  For example, you bring up a web browser or two and have pages that you are reading.  While navigating a web page, a finger strays over the top left corner of the screen (the home icon) and bang, all windows are closed and you are staring at your desktop.  It is very annoying to connect to Internet again, bring up everything you lost just because you touched the corner of the screen.
Another annoyance are the video types that popup a message to pay Archos another 5 to 7 bucks to get the driver.  For the price of this unit, they should value the customer relationship more than this nickle and dime treatment.  The email support from Archos (all that is available) is classic bad.  They take days to respond with their terse franglish message that does not answer the question.  I wonder if they even read the question.
I initially bought the Archos to replace a Nokia 770 that I lost on vacation.  I chose the Archos over the iTouch largely because of the screen size.  I recently found the 770 (tucked in an unusual pocket of my suitcase while packing for a weekend in NYC).  Using them both side by side has heightened my respect for the 770.  It is light, has excellent wireless coverage (it picks up signals from houses across the street) and has a nicely thought out user interface.  The 770 uses a stylus instead of your finger like on the Archos. I find the stylus much faster and considerably more accurate to use.  Another nice feature of the 770, is the keyboard pops up as soon as you touch a place on a web page that accepts text and a well thought out keyboard that doesn't require mode shifting like the Archos.  The 770 has a type ahead functionality that lets you complete words with just a few characters and is more robust, intuitive and responsive than the Archos.  I would recommend Archos buy a 770 for each of their Archos engineers.  If not for such a small screen, I would just use the 770 most of the time instead of maybe half the time.
My Archos 7 sits in my kitchen and I use it almost every day to check email, watch youtube and generally just browse around the web.  I rarely use the keyboard as it is so unpleasant.  I rated Archos 2 stars which likely would have been 3 stars had I not found the Nokia 770 to contrast the functionality.  There is certainly a lot more the Archos can do than I take advantage.  I did try the DVR option,  hooked it up to my tv with the hope of giving Cablevision back their 15 buck a month dvr.  So far I have had limited success recording programs and still use Cablevision's dvr.
So even though playing with my Archos 7 has been slightly disappointing,  I remain hopeful that someday I will have a light, large, intuitive, fully functioning browser sitting in my hands browsing the morning news and reading my email over a cup of tea.