ID: B001GCTT7G-RVH3HUXQYLDRP-A2N3UF4KPCZFXB
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB467LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2N3UF4KPCZFXB
ReviewerName: Linda
Date: April 21, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Perfect for Me
Content:
I purchased this laptop after doing much research since Apple's product line has gotten increasingly large and complicated.  There was also some of the "do I really need this" since I have a relatively new 20" iMac G5 and an older G4.  I was concerned that the screen wouldn't be large enough, but wanted something small and lightweight enough to carry with me when I'm traveling.  Well, this fits the bill, weighing only 4-1/2 lbs.
As other reviewers have stated, it's taken me a while to get used to the trackpad also and I'll admit to just ignoring the many features before finally starting to use it as designed.  Now I love it!
I was also concerned about the speaker system and was right.  For me, it's not good enough.  A pair of small headphones makes all the difference in the world, though, and I'm considering connecting it wirelessly to my Bose Lifestyle, but it's not a "have to" to get good sound.
Also, I neglected to notice in the Description that it doesn't have a Firewire port and that gave me some difficulty in transferring information from the G5.  In using a USB port for that task, the computers recognized each other but the G5 kept searching for another computer, and an hour on the phone with Apple support didn't solve the problem, so I was given a Case No. the very first day.  I finally just manually transferred the information I wanted, leaving all the accumulated junk.  The next day, I realized what the problem was:  the G5 had been looking for my Wii, which was not turned on but is wirelessly connected to my network.
My first computer was an Apple IIe in the early 1980s and I've had many more since then; some I liked more than others.  This is one I would highly recommend.  The weight is good and the screen size is perfectly adequate.  If my eyes need a larger font, that's easily done.  It has quickly become my primary computer.