ID: B0012YA85A-R2DTWORRA5LPO5-AXB8GOSNU33N8
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Camera-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: AXB8GOSNU33N8
ReviewerName: Lelan Powers
Date: March 13, 2009
Helpful: 13 of 16
Rating: 3.0
Title: xsi auto focus issues
Content:
I don't usually add to post but I felt that I need to help others with deciding on the purchase of the XSI. My situation started in January of 09 when I bought the XSI along with the 50mm f1.8 and the 55-250mm IS lens after reading extensive reviews on the internet before I purchased the camera. After receiving the camera and lenses I started to see a focus issue very quickly with the kit lens. I then contacted Amazon and they promptly sent me a new XSI camera. When I received that camera I used both kit lenses on both bodies and they both had the very same AF issue when you use the center focus point. When I used the 50 prime and the 55-250mm IS with both camera bodies neither of those lenses missed the focus using the center focus point. I never was in auto mode always in shutter or aperture mode. Every picture with the kit lens was clearly very soft and out of focus. I then returned the first camera back to Amazon for credit and I sent the second kit lens to Canon for recalibration. When I received it back from Canon I then started the process again and there was some improvement but they were all out of focus using the center focus point or any one of the 9 individual focus points. I then started to experiment with the camera by using aperture priority and center auto focus point and I would use the AF shutter button pressed half way and then switch to live view and the image would be out of focus so I would refocus in live view and it would nail the scene every time due to the fact they use different focus methods in live view. This is unacceptable. Furthermore when I contacted Canon CS they portrayed that I was the only person that has had an issue with the XSI and the kit lens. Even after I got the lens back and contacted Canon CS I got the same response about me being the only person with this issue. I still thought it was my technique but I can tell you that after 3000 pictures with the camera I cannot be that BAD there is an inherent problem with the communication between the kit lens and the body of the XSI period! Canon can say what they want but after taking the camera to 2 different professionals we all came to the same conclusion. I know the kit lens is NOT L quality but the kit lens should perform to the same standard as the 55-250mm IS lens and if not then back to the research for a different camera and that is when I am after 2 months of frustration with the camera. The lack of Canon recognizing the true issue and being able to fix it really has me stumped. I could have sent the body and the lens back to Canon at no charge because they sent me a return label but my time with Amazon return policy was up so I had no other choice but to return the 2nd camera that I tried to like. If you would like to see the pictures I would gladly send them to you. You can contact me through this site I think?
Lpowers