ID: B0015GEJZ0-R2M5MIV66IP6FK-ASZ8MIPP17JIW
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-Digital-Reduction-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: ASZ8MIPP17JIW
ReviewerName: Austin M. Kramer "Rouge Scholar"
Date: September 8, 2008
Helpful: 73 of 73
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great camera, but not for the beginner...
Content:
As an on-and-off pro photographer, I needed a professional camera that I could use in places like the Kashmir or Khazakstan, taking professional quality pictures without risking a five to ten thousand dollar piece of equipment. The Pentax K20D works for me, expecially thanks to certain key elements:
1. Size
Since I'm not a studio photographer, and the fieldwork I'm into these days is in some pretty rough places, I wanted a camera that was sturdy and compact and easy to carry. The K20d is significantly smaller than any other pro or semi-pro camera on the market, and it makes a big difference because I can carry it in a shoulder bag along with a sweater and notebook, rather than having to carry a separate camera bag.
2. Control (Features)
The camera has all the shooting control of a Pro Camera. Especially cool is that almost every adjustment has a convenient on-body toggle, meaning I can set up my shots without having to navigate menus.
3. Control (Image quality)
I'm a nuts-and-bolts kind of guy, so I don't like it when a camera thinks its smarter than me. Although a lot of people complain about its lack of noise reduction, that's one of the big reasons I bought it. You see, every digital picture has noise. Cameras designed for shooting pictures of your kids on vacation smear the details away to try to hide it. They don't have less noise, they just make the picture fuzzy until you can't notice the pixels. Once this is done, there is a permanent loss of detail. 
The K20D preserves the original image and lets you manually adjust noise reduction, which can be done in most image editing programs like Adobe Photoshop. I understand that not everyone knows how to do this, but don't blame Pentax. If you don't know how to manually edit your photos, then why on earth are you spending a thousand dollars on a camera body? This is not a point and shoot camera. Good point and shoot cameras with SLR-like features are widely available for less than half the price, so think twice if you really need this camera before investing in it.
4. Manual Features and Battery Life
Virtually everything in this camera can be set to manual mode. Manual focus is a toggle switch, so it won't constantly reset itself. Devoted dials on the body adjust the aperture and exposure time. Rather than automatically popping up at random times, the flash will not pop up unless you manually activate it. In full manual mode, it allows you to set up each shot just like with an old SLR. Since that's the only way I shoot, and use the lcd screen sparingly if at all, there is virtually no drain on the battery. Set like this, I have used the camera for up to four weeks, shooting more than a thousand photos without having to charge the battery. I doubled that time by buying the back-up battery extension. The Lithium Ion batteries are awesome.
5. Mirror-up LCD viewfinder
You can lock the mirror up and use the LCD screen on the back as a viewfinder, which is really helpful in framing shots where you can't check the viewfinder. It also reduces body-shake in multi-second exposures, which is handy if you shoot at night.
Now I have heard one, and only one complaint (other than noise reduction) which is that its burst mode is kind of slow at 21fps. I'm not a burst mode photographer, so I wouldn't know. In my opinion, if you want a camera that shoots more than 21fps, then buy a video camera. Apparently this makes a difference for sports photographers - another thing I don't do.
The main reason, though that I bought this camera is to be able to use the Pentax lenses, which I love. But it should be important to remember, as a digital camera, it's sensor is big, but not 35mm big, and this changes the proportions and angles from what a film camera shoots. Thus a 50mm lens from your film Pentax takes photos like a 75m lens - a factor of 1.5, so if you want a normal shot, shoot at around 35mm, and wide angle around 19, etc. A 100mm lense will actually shoot like a 150. This can be handy for using wider lenses with less distortion. I have a fish eye lense that is a little too wide on film but perfect on the Pentax. Also, it only takes auto-exposure compatible lenses, ie, modern ones, so you can't use your golden oldies, like an f1 from the 1960s.
On the whole, if the camera fits your needs, it's worth way more than the price. Hands down my favorite camera in the field of DSLRs.