ID: B0012OGF6Q-R2Y5U617MYRXF4-A12KAC8M7URNTS
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G
ReviewerID: A12KAC8M7URNTS
ReviewerName: J. Deering
Date: July 1, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very un-digital digital camera
Content:
I should preface this with a little history, this is my third digital camera but my first digital SLR.  I have and still own several quality 35mm SLR but fell for the instant gratification and cost of digital several years ago.  I was almost to the point of going back to film due to the drawbacks (slow shutter, quality of enlargements, limited versatility etc.) of my past digital cameras.  I then read a review of the new Nikon D60 and for just a little more than I paid for my last 35mm SLR (inflation adjusted) thought I would give it a try.
I have finally gotten thru the manual of my new Nikon D60 camera, it really has more in common with a 35mm SLR than any digital camera I have ever used.  Except for the fact that that I can take 2K pictures at max resolution on the 8 gig SD card I bought.  It also has more options than any single person can ever use, I assume this is to appeal to varied users who have different priorities.  I have decided to use it much like my old auto 35mm SLRs in Shutter Priority mode most of the time.  I now should know enough to take some decent pics if something important comes up, say a wedding or something.  It will be some time before I feel I am using all this camera has to offer. The shutter is super quick, again just like a 35mm film camera, no delay.  I need to try some action shots now to verify this but at 3 frames a second it should be great.  
As much as I like it this camera is not for everybody, sure you can put it in auto and use it like a point and shoot but if that is all you want save a few hundred and buy a point and shoot.  It is also missing two features that some people would like.  The 2.5" screen shows you the picture after you take it but can not be used to take pictures, you have to use the viewfinder.  I assume this is to save battery power, or maybe they figure real photographers would use the viewfinder anyway.  With an SLR you do get exactly what you see in the viewfinder on the picture, plus there is all the other info you would need there, shutter speed, aperture, focus point etc etc.  The other feature casual picture takers would miss is the capability to take movies.  You can use the continuous mode at 3 frames per second and then you can stitch them together into a MPEG right on the camera.  But again this camera is aimed at the serious photographer and if you are serious about movies you would use a video camera anyway.
Bottom line for me anyway, this camera has everything I loved about my 35mm SLRs, without any of the drawbacks, it is way lighter, cheap to use, (no film), fully adjustable for every exposure criteria, (f-stop, shutter speed, lighting color, white balance, etc. etc), plus I get the instant gratification of digital photography.  I can't wait to take some great photos and blow them up as I used to with film.  I highly recommend to anyone who wants a good quality, reasonably priced camera.  Now I need to pick-up the 70 to 200 zoom lens and remote control, there's this humming bird on the feeder that I would love to capture of "film".