ID: B00185XISW-R1PO8WOUNDYZAS-A2ZS7ZT1N46WEY
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Eco-heater-602-High-Efficiency-Electric-Whole-Room
ReviewerID: A2ZS7ZT1N46WEY
ReviewerName: Derek "DXTAC"
Date: November 15, 2008
Helpful: 11 of 13
Rating: 5.0
Title: The BEST heating option if you have children and/or pets!!
Content:
I have both, twin 4 year old boys and a high strung Weimaraner named Amara. Anyway, we needed a heater for the 2nd largest and furthest bedroom from our forced air furnace. Even though our home is only 6 years old and very well insulated, the furnace just can't keep that room warm enough for true comfort. Earlier this spring our boys moved into this room and I knew that the heat was going to be an issue in the winter. The room has always been a few degrees cooler than any other room in the house during the winter months. The room measures 11x13 (143 sq ft) with a 14 ft tray ceiling and a 52" ceiling fan so it's a little larger than the 120 sq ft the manufacturer recommends but it has done a great job at keeping the room the same temp as the rest of the house. We keep the thermostat at 65 degrees during the winter and so far so good! What we have done thus far is turned the unit on and off but ordered an outlet thermostat to control it more efficiently.
As for installation, it could not be easier! The hardware provided is actually good quality. It came with 4 EZ Anchor style drywall anchors, 4 large drywall style screws and some cheap insert style anchors that I did not use. I aligned my unit next to an outlet so I could sink 2 of the screws into a stud and have the outlet right there to plug it into. I felt better anchoring at least 2 of the screws into a stud. I used the EZ Anchor type anchors for the other 2 screws. The template that was provided worked great! Just level the template, use one of the screws provided to poke a hole through the marked template to mark the wall and hang the unit. I was able to do it myself in about 5 minutes, literally!! I am fairly handy so maybe plan on 10 minutes if you aren't.
Heat output is AWESOME!! It heats up 100% in about 10-15 minutes and you can really feel the difference right away. The unit does NOT get as hot to the touch as one reviewer eluded to but it is definitely sufficient to heat the above mentioned room 2-3 degrees and keep it very comfortable with the door closed. The dog just sniffed the unit and walked away and both of my boys were given a class/lecture/briefing on not touching or playing around with the unit. I did have both of them touch the unit after it was fully heated to show them it will not burn them but to never play with it nonetheless.
Overall I really like the unit and am going to order 2 more for my basement. My dad is also interested for his house as well. Hope this review can help you make a educated decision on this unit. I am really impressed with every aspect and I was skeptical when doing the initial research.