ID: B001H55J6M-R1M0SABOQPBFZ6-ASQWDRUO2TDX1
Category: Laptops
Product: Lenovo-IdeaPad-13-3-Inch-Processor-Premium
ReviewerID: ASQWDRUO2TDX1
ReviewerName: S. Chon
Date: July 19, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Lenovo IdeaPad U330 is Perfect (Almost)
Content:
It's been a week since I receive the U330.
My spec is Core 2 Duo 2.0 with 2GB RAM and 250HDD. 
I'll start with Pro:
Small for factor, light and key board is very light and responsive.
Solid battery life and fast Wifi. Switchable Graphic option is great. I really don't need a ATI graphic unless I am doing gaming, which I did not bought it for. My whole purpose for this notebook is mostlty a presentation and lots a Office Software usages. If anyone is looking for a notebook for playing games I think 13.3" portable notebook is a totally wrong product.
I had Thinkpad T42p for longtime and after several years it was time to get new notebook.  I wanted a small and light with decent battery life. I think I found a perfect notebook for my needs. I was going to buy a T400 but it was little heavy. I have a friend who bought a U330 4months ago, I used it for couple of times and I liked it, only thing that I didn't like it about is a shiny top would drive me crazy, but I ordered it anyway. But to my suprise mine came with matte cover which looks just like my T42p. I know some people likes shiny top that looks almost like a macbook black. I think U330 looks better than macbook and price I got was awsome. I bought it $778.00 shipped to my door that includes tax and shipping. 
Only con might be a shiny screen that reflects everything when used out door. My ussage will be 90% indoor so I'm not worried. People were talking about touch media buttons that needs two touch to get access to media buttons but how lazy do you really have to be complaining about that function? Be real. 
Screen is very bright and crisp. I haven't played any games so I don't know. Watching and playing DVD is good. I only have 2G RAM but Vista Premium works fine. I am not fan of Vista so I am waiting for Win7 and upgrade to it. I have disable most of the function that came with Lenovo such as veriface, shock sensor and norton trial and other useless product. Took me almost hour just to uninstall the darn things. Especially Office 60days trial packages. Update all the Vista except the IE8. U330 is a solid notebook with capability of alot more. So I am giving a 5 star.