ID: B0012YPMOC-RTUNP9SRMG6UY-A21NIP5BJ541P5
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Portable-Media-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A21NIP5BJ541P5
ReviewerName: D. Reich
Date: April 6, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Reveiw of my "4th" Creative Zen Purchase...
Content:
I'll keep this short and sweet as possible, this being my 4th Creative Zen buy! *Plus also bought a Muvo 2GB for 1 of my sons!*
Battery life,, compared to the I-Pod Touch I own, the Zen has great battery life and if run nearly dead will charge fairly quick, the buttons & menu take a while to figure out & master, but do work well. The Volume choice & Menu selection keys are easy to learn and maneuver, about the same curve learning wise as the I-Pod.
The newer utility to convert Flash & other files to watch is quick & effective. A basic no brainer for the most part, a little time putzing around with it helps with learning menus and basic navigation & controls and care of it too.
So far the 3 year old 4GB Zen has the same battery level & available hrs & use as the newest one! A sure sign of effective use & recharging fully of the battery after enjoying my media! Haven't had any glitches media wise nor battery wise, screen is still clear with minimal scratches, I didn't think of protectors until after my I-Pod purchase! Honestly media transfer is easier on the Creative units, compared to the I-Pod! Figured it would be the opposite but was wrong, (odd isn't it?). Overall the creative units have served me & my kids quite well, am really thinking of buying a 32GB or 64GB X-Fi model sometime soon as well. Honestly thought the I-Pod would out-shine the Creative but it didn't, it's not as easy to navigate nor charge and loading media via I-Tunes sucks!! Plus it really eats power just listening to MP3's or AAC's or whatever.....Video's always eat more power but the I-Pod needed recharging sooner, almost every time I used it! Oh well, Double the cost & it isn't as useful, or as energy efficient at least for me anyway!
My only beef lately buying Creative is using Amazon! It was smoother and cheaper buying direct via [...]!? Oh well, things do change I guess...
I also seldom give 100% or 5 stars yadda yadda, but the Zen really shines!
Now when the batteries do croak, I'll buy a kit and replace it myself, isn't that hard to do, minor fiddling with wires and a touch of Solder ..etc..etc..
If your willing to learn the Keystrokes, menus and so on, it's a gem of a buy!
Hope this helps someone with deciding to purchase or not!? Thanks for reading and Thanks to Creative for the great products! 
I Honestly enjoy these Zen Media Players 100%! *My honest opinion* ~Dave in CA~