ID: B001TXIDCE-RF2OVP371UNHW-A13NK5A3VJU6H3
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-E620-Digital-Stabilization-Body
ReviewerID: A13NK5A3VJU6H3
ReviewerName: G. Sager
Date: August 31, 2009
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: The perfect set up
Content:
I won't go deeply into the features and benefits, if you're reading this - then you've already researched those.  I would rather tell you about how much fun this camera is to use.  I've been a fan of super zooms for a long time and while they have their obvious drawbacks - they really are very handy.  I was a big fan of the Canon S5 IS and when I moved up to an DSLR - I looked at Canon, but ultimately decided on an E-510.  I liked it - solid camera, but I missed the swivel screen.  It was really useful when shooting at odd angles (such as in a crowd).  So along comes the E-620 and I jumped at it.  I then added the battery grip, an Olympus grip strap and a Zuiko 18-180 lens.  Suddenly I had the perfect camera (for me, of course)- a DSLR Super Zoom.  It fits my hand perfectly, has 10x capability, is fast, light, perfect for a wide variety of shooting situations, and it has the versital swivel screen.  It's a HOT set up.  Put it in a Tamarac 5683 and you have a great travel photography combo.  I have this camera with me nearly all the time and the results have been fantastic.  
A word about the art filters - LOVE THEM!  I recommend you pair this camera up with a wrist strap and the Zuiko 25mm pancake lens.  Then use the "grainy B&W film" art filter for astounding retro results.  (This lens works well with the "Pop Art" filter as well).  This set up has nearly the same size and weight as a point and shoot (like the Canon G series for example) with the image quality of a DSLR.  Again, very fast and light and it can fit in a small bag or big coat pocket.  Think - a cross between the E 410 and the E 30.  It's perfect!  
This is Olympus' best work to date.  I highly recommend this camera.  It's a true artist's camera and an absolute blast to use.  If you're already an Olympus fan, this is a "no brainer".  If you own another brand and are not too heavily invested in glass - this is a great camera to start with.  The photographs you will take with this camera will WOW people.