ID: B0012Q94AI-R3IGGRTNKL573T-A23KB5EYDLMB9V
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-14-6MP-Digital-Camera-Reduction
ReviewerID: A23KB5EYDLMB9V
ReviewerName: D. B. Harris "ablur"
Date: July 2, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Simply the Best
Content:
I have owned Pentax cameras for 25 years.  They are simple easy to use cameras with the controls in just the right place to give the operator complete freedom to take any shot.  You won't find yourself winding into a pretzel in order to make a simple adjustment.
The K20D is a fantastic camera that performs like one 3 or 4 times its price.  I have shot images of all types and brightnesses and have found it to be excellent.  The brightness curve is a little low and will need to be brought up a little but this is far better then being too high and blowing out detail.  
The battery life is excellent allowing me to get 750-1000 shots before needing to make a change.  I use little flash so I can enjoy the full colors of my setting without blown out spots and bad reflections.
I have great night vision and the auto focus will start to loose it a little before I do.  I can quickly switch to manual focus and keep on shooting.  I avoid pushing the ISO over 800 to minimize noise.  You will find the detail is still excellent at high ISOs where other cameras will sacrifice detail to keep the noise to a minimum.  I personally would rather have a full detail shot with a little noise of that important moment then a low noise low detail shot.
My lens choice is the DA 18-250mm.  This is a fantastic lens that surprisingly does the whole range well.  When I shot film I was constantly in need of lenses and would often carry 3-5 on me.  This lens will almost do it all.  I am still planning on getting a wide of 10-12mm and a longer zoom of 400m or more.  
The in body shake reduction system allows me to shoot down to 1/2 second while holding the camera.  I have been doing this for a long time and have trained myself to hold very still but with it off, the best I can do is 1/15th.  I would still recommend a tripod but knowing I can still take the shot in almost any condition is very comforting.
The bottom line is that this camera is well worth the money.  It is the best value for anything even remotely close in capability.  Don't let the fact that Cannon and Nikon hog all the press keep you from giving this a serious look.