ID: B0012QAXNA-R3H66NN9N0G0KQ-A3492VK4ALBLPF
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-10-2MP-Digital-Camera-Reduction
ReviewerID: A3492VK4ALBLPF
ReviewerName: Kane Cheung "xy1981ca"
Date: July 24, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: Traded K100D for K200D
Content:
I started out with a K100D and when the K10D came out, I was immediately green with envy. A few years later, the K200D came out, it was competitively priced and had most of the great K10D features. I cut my losses and traded the K100D in for the K200D. I am very pleased with it. The reasons for the trade were for the following features:
+ Remote flash: I've always wanted this feature that Nikon users take for granted, it doesn't work as great and sometimes doesn't detect the controlling flash. But when within range and everything, it works and am very happy to finally have it.
+ Weather seals: sure, it's not bullet proof and doesn't help the lenses at all. But I used to not take my camera out when weather conditions were not fair. The same goes for my friends with canons and nikons. With the K200D, I have no fears of taking it out and actually USING it. I know, it's totally a psychological thing, but the peace of mind is still a feature to me.
+ Sensor cleaner: The anti shake feature is also used to shake off the dust in the K200D, it doesn't really work, I never notice it shaking anything off. But I also set it to shake upon power up. I also have a Giottos rocket blower, the combination seems to keep the K200D relatively dust free. Much more so than my K100D. I know it's not just the weather seals because I know the dust is getting in when I change lenses.
+ Better WB & PRIME engine: the color control is much better in the K200D, an immense improvement and main reason for the upgrade.
+ Shoots in DNG format: I am no longer tied to Pentax's photolab SW. I can now use photoshop without any plugins or upgrades. Very good feature.
The things I miss on the K100D:
- Battery power seems more finicky on the K200D, I had to switch to Eneloops, which allows me to get 1000+ images per charge. AMAZING, but sad that it only performs with Eneloops.
- The images look under exposed and overly contrasted. These features can be offset easily, but it does take some time to get used to and learn to work around. Once you learn its behavior, it is very predictable and linear.
- My external flash no longer gets perfect exposure every time in any condition. For some reason, the K200D works terribly with the FGZ540. It is very easy to under or over expose an image. I am not sure if this is because I shoot in ISO100 vs K100D's ISO200. But the end result is I can no longer turn on the FGZ and just shoot. I have to manually set the flash zoom. The flash exposure setting doesn't seem to do anything either. I've gone on forums to see if I have a defective K200D, but in the end, I've moved on and have accepted the issue.
I am very very happy with the K200D, as the DSLR market gets more and more competitive, I still find the K200D completely usable for all my needs. If you want a DSLR that just works out of the box, you should stick with canons and nikons. Pentax is really for the dedicated and people with a pentax lens collection. Feature for feature, pentax always loses to canons and nikons, but it is still more than enough for anyone who is serious about photography. Especially if you've done film photography, I feel that Pentax replicates the film camera experience better than all other brands. Its simplicity and attention to detail gives it that classic feeling. While other brands focus on speed, specs and little functions that make it completely and totally feel... digital. I do envy those features some times. When I see my friends shoot in 800 or 1600ISO with no noise at all, I am jealous. But then, you really can't do that with film either. So I've come to terms with Pentax's short comings. I hope Pentax will turn things around with their full frame DSLRs.