ID: B001FA1O0E-R1LCLQDFF5MH3D-A2PKTA66T438YJ
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-touch-Generation-Previous-Model
ReviewerID: A2PKTA66T438YJ
ReviewerName: SptXc
Date: November 15, 2008
Helpful: 16 of 16
Rating: 5.0
Title: My very first iPod!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Content:
I just lost my iPod virginity. I was never a fan of Apple. I thought that Apple was a complete rip off, too expensive, and too restricted. That all changed when I bought the 16gb. I gave in to the whole iPod mania. It is an extraordinary piece of technology. I would recommend buying the 16gb or 32bg, because during setup it uses 1.5gbs.
The look and feel of the Touch is great. Fits perfectly in your hand. Its very light weight and the screen size is perfect. Now yes, it is a smudge magnet. I've read some of the other reviews and the same thing everyone complained about is that it smudges too much. Of course it does, if you have dirty greasy fingers, its gonna leave finger prints all over the screen. Apple included a cleaning cloth. Wipe it off and stop bitching about. I would recommend a case for the Touch, it does scratch very easily. 
The sound is great. Some of the other reviews said its not the best, I beg to differ. It sounds like any other mp3 player. I have the Creative Zen, (which is great if your looking for a very basic mp3 player) and it sounds exactly the same. I don't know what some of the other reviewers were expecting, the sound is good enough for me. Now, the speaker. Its pretty umm, not good, I don't wanna say bad, its just the speaker isn't useful for playing music. I wouldn't use it for playing music because its not loud enough, it sounds like its going to bust, and its very distorted. Its good for the alarm, email alerts, games, but its not good enough to play music on. 
The music is great. The way the player is setup is something ive never seen. Tilt the screen sideways, you have coverflow, just slide through album covers. Tilt it upwards, you can scroll through songs, or artists, or play lists. The genius play list I don't care for. There's no point of it. I don't need it to randomly pick songs when im listening to one song. Its seem to be a version of the shuffle feature. The volume buttons are on the side, you can use it whenever your browsing through the Touch. No need to go to the player page and adjust the volume on the screen, just use the button on the side. 
Wifi. If you really wanna enjoy the whole experience of the Touch, you have to have wifi!! I know some people who don't have wifi, and only use it for the music, which makes no sense. You need a router, you don't have one, get one before buying the Touch. The wifi is probably the most important feature in the Touch. You can do so much with it. Email, Youtube, Safari, AppStore, itunes store, Maps, Weather. Without wifi, you will have a very boring and pointless Touch.
Safari is really good. You can stroll through all websites. It doesn't support Flash, which sucks, that would have been great. Maybe the generation of Touches. Not much to say about the safari, its just the internet. Youtube! Works very well. Search any video as you normally would on the computer, watch anything you want on youtube. Email, check email, sent or receive. I have aol email setup on the Touch and its pretty damn good. 
Now App Store and iTunes music store. I would recommend buying a prepaid itunes gift card. You will get addicted to buying songs and games on the Touch. Limit yourself when searching the iTunes store. The whole entire library of music is in your hands. Downloading music is very fast and again, addictive. There are tons of FREE apps available in the App Store. I have Myspace mobile, Facebook, AOL radio, (yes real streaming radio, and it has local radio stations) iTv, and sooo much more. Tons of games, a lot of them are free. 
I don't know what else to say I know im leaving out a lot, (Nike, if you don't have the right Nike shoes and don't run, then there's no point of the Nike feature)  and probably most of you didn't read the whole review. It's a great mp3 player that does everything. 
In simple words for those looking for an extraordinary mp3 player:
iPhone - AT&T = iPod Touch.