ID: B001FSKDX0-R3OH8UCCLO2DIU-A2Z5JKDIEZF57Q
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Panasonic-DMC-G1-Digital-3-5-5-6-Blue
ReviewerID: A2Z5JKDIEZF57Q
ReviewerName: T Boyer "seattleparent"
Date: July 29, 2009
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very good landscape/architecture/"street shooter" camera.
Content:
You may have noticed, this is a really hot camera among serious photogs that has sold out a lot of places. It is functionally similar as the much more expensive (and slightly smaller GX1). After a trip to Italy to give this camera its first workout, I'd like to offer an amended (and more informed review)
1)Wonderful feature set. At times bewildering to this amateur. There are so many ways to capture images that will produce different results depending on what you're trying to accomplish.
2)Excellent lenses and image quality. The 200mm (equiv to like a 400mm) telephoto is really fun and the basic 14-45 (equiv to 32-90) is an outstanding "street shooter."
3)The default settings on this camera are really nice and the JPGs are really quite close to RAW -- no great need to shoot RAW but you can. No over-punching colors like Canon does. Images are really true to what you actually saw. Panasonic sometimes underexposes slightly but I'd rather have that than blown out highlights.
4)HDR functionality is excellent. It will autobracket exposure with a total range 4 fstops. You can go out on the internet and see some of the fantastic HDR images this camera will produce.
5)Live viewfinder is a real benefit. I easily forget that it's an electronic viewfinder -- the resolution of the little viewfinder is that good. You can also tilt the larger screen so you can shoot around corners, above crowds etc. Serious photographers who like to play with settings will LOVE being able to see their changes show up as they're lining up the picture.
My only criticism of this camera is the autofocus, and it may be just that I haven't spend enough time playing with the focus settings. The default is a 9 or 10 point focus that seems to compromise between the points and you can end up with soft images. The softness may only bother you when you're enlarging to 8x10 prints, but it should be much sharper given the excellent quality of the Zeiko lenses. At times the focusing is perfect -- it's just inconsistent and I haven't figured out the key to it yet.
No question about it, this camera, with its large four-thirds sensor and excellent lens (and reportedly with software lens correction happening inside the camera), produces better image quality in normal light than ANY compact camera and and some of the entry level DSLRs. Resolution (when the focus is hitting) is comparable to a Canon 450, though low-light performance will not be as good as a DSLR.