ID: B00138MVBY-R1RTSDJOOW47T1-A39CY4QWM9BBIN
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Sony-DSLRA300K-Digital-SteadyShot-Stabilization
ReviewerID: A39CY4QWM9BBIN
ReviewerName: D. Arce
Date: June 11, 2008
Helpful: 15 of 18
Rating: 4.0
Title: Did not meet my expectation..
Content:
I'm a long time digital camera user for more than 12 years. The last camera I had is a Sony V3 with a built in Carl Zeiss lens. A very good and a descent camera with a little problem at indoor shots (poor flash).I bought this camera for traveling and vacation with the family and this is my very first SLR camera. I upgraded my old camera hoping for a better quality pictures. The Alpha 100 had very impressive reviews at Amazon.com and that made me decide to buy the Alpha 300 with the kit. 
 
I have taken several outdoor shots for both V3 and the new alpha and compared the image side by side. The result was not a big difference as far as clarity. The picture taken by alpha was just a little bit better only because of higher mega pixel. I had a very high expectation and I'm not too happy at all. With my disappointment, I thought of returning the camera but I decided to give another try. I have read opinion of other reviewers who are not too happy either and strongly recommend the 16-80 Carl Zeiss lens. Bought this to a local store and planned to return just in case.(I'm telling you, these lens are very expensive. The price of the lens is even more expensive than the price of the camera kit). Anyway I did another side by side test and the Zeiss lens performed a lot better especially when you zoom in at every detail of the image so I decided to keep it.
Overall the camera kit is okay when you are taking pictures without cropping or editing. Otherwise if you are very picky in term with picture quality and clarity then look around. You have to remember that I did not compare with the other brand of the same category. But the money I spend with the Carl Zeiss lens, I could have bought the more expensive version of Nikon or the other brand.
My only complain so far beside the cheap lens is the low location of the built-in flash. Raising up quarter of an inch could have prevented the shadow of lens to the subject taken at least 2 feet away. For this an external flash is required.
The things I like are.
Live View 
I will tell you the advantage is. Because you can be tilt the screen, in the crowd you can raise camera and you can still see you subject as well as on low elevation. 
I myself want to be in the picture once in a while. When camera set to live view, it will turn to a point shoot setting and people who have a very limited experience can still take good picture. My youngest kid he's 9 can take it 99% good quality pictures I guess with the help of the 
built in stabilizer.
Low light and ISO 
It can still take good picture quality without the use of flash. 
Built-in stabilizer