ID: B0012Y88QQ-RWAT9IJ5MXU1Z-A1QWGF1LJS0FW8
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A1QWGF1LJS0FW8
ReviewerName: H. C. Brett "Bresch"
Date: March 18, 2010
Helpful: 8 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: Photography Addiction!!!!
Content:
Since I was a child I always had a camera and loved taking pictures. My first camera was a Kodak 35mm rectangle job. You know the one with the square one time use flash on top? I then had Vivitars and Ritchshot In May of 2000 I bought the Canon Rebel EOS for trips to China and Australia. I never fully got proper use of the camera because film does not show the errors of your settings. I then went on to buy several Nikon Cool Pix and a Canon Powershot S2. In December of 2009 my wife and I bought each other as a gift to ourselves this camera. Words do not describe the feeling of "arriving" as an artisitc photographer. Ous lives will never be the same.
I must say I am biast against Nikon SLR's because my friends have them, and with the graduation to lenses and accessories I will be Canon 4 life. 
The functions of this camera are amazing. Eveything I struggled with for years in film, and inept point and shoot and powershot cameras came to an abrupt end by purchasing this one. The functions people struggle with, tones, lighting, sharpness are answered in a matter of a few test shots going through normal photography education (a quick reference guide in the owners manaual gives a brief overview that you can learn what you need to know). The book was a guide that in the 1st week and several hundred shots later were answered by photographs that made friends and family think they were fake or not done by this camera. I will be posting photos here on 3/19/10 of what I am trying to convey. The use of the picture style defines the photos that you take. Monochrome, Sepia, landscape with the right filters brings out the inner photographer you never knew you had. You will never, ever go back to the automatic settings after two weeks of using P, TV, AV, M, and A-Dep setting. The 12.1 Megapixles is great for framing the highest quality photos in 11x14 frames. I do not belive in the near future our walls we be able to hold our photos, we will have to keep switching them out. 
The only warning I have for buyers of this camera, or any SLR is that these are the cameras that take you to a new comfortable level and that comes with a price!!! you start off with the 18-55mm lense. That is not good enough. You must then get filters to bring out the landscapes and protraits you are taking. Then you move on to buying the 70-200mm or 70-300mm lenses, because you need the advance lenses to take action photos, or landscape photos. Then you need a wide angle lense, because taking pictures in the mountains or indoors, or of landscapes you get tired of backing up and not getting what you want in the shot. Then comes the hood for the wide angle, and the UV filter, and it goes on and on. Think of the camera as a foundation to advanced photography, however the lenses, the flash, and the filters, which will run you $700-$2000 it is what defines the pictures themselves. This camera is an awesome tool to capture your view of the world, the events in your life, and convey them in a professional manner. The price is fair and it will be a camera for years and years of professional photography.