ID: B001REHCZY-R35UYOL5PQC3A2-A1PUIVAP24G0V0
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-SDC740B-SpaceMaker-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1PUIVAP24G0V0
ReviewerName: Dieter von Bremsklotz
Date: December 5, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 1.0
Title: Good coffee, bad quality control, public beating?
Content:
We've had a 2 previous B&D under counter coffee makers. All made good coffee but all had serious quality issues. 
The last SDC740 we had was not like the current model visually. It was more square and had a more vertical water box. I purchased it despite overwhelming an avalanche of negative reviews on amazon. The reviews indicated several problems:
1. The coffee basket popped out after several days of use, because the snap in feature had been poorly designed and used ABS plastic that was too thin and lost it's shape under the heat generated by the coffee maker. This caused coffee and grounds to spill all over the counter. I solved this problem by plastic welding 1/16" ABS strips in the appropriate places, using MEK solvent. It seams that this problem is fixed in the current model.
2. The coffeemaker's electronics caused a reset in our microwave oven's timer repeatedly. I put up with this inconvenience, since it only occurred once or twice monthly. It seams that this problem is also fixed in the current model.
3. The carafe had a spout that was poorly designed. It was almost impossible to pour coffee when the carafe was over half full, without spilling coffee all over the counter. It seams that this problem is also fixed in the current model.
When I saw the new Spacemaker SDC740 coffeemaker, during a recent visit at K-Mart, I could not resist and bought it. Installation instructions as on previous models, were a travesty. My cabinets have a frame with a 9/10" front overhang. The screws and spacers provided are useless. No combination of spacers can make up 9/10". The long screws are too long and the next shorter size are too short. The supplied mounting template is useless. It has no measurements on it and does not take into account a vertical frame rail with mounting brackets that protrude behind it above the cabinet floor. It should have included a half circular dotted line to be cut out between the 2 forward facing mounting holes. I could have made the required cutout myself, but did not have the confidence in the accuracy of the supplied template due to previous experience in with B&D coffeemaker designers and manufacturing implementations. I knew I could trust my own measurements more and therefore measured the distances between mounting holes of the mounting bracket and transferred them to the inside of the cabinet floor. I made my own rear spacer by taking a piece of 2x3 wood and sawing it down to the required 9/10" thickness.
My previous experience with under counter coffeemakers pointed out a potentially serious problem as follows:
Do not install it too far back. After some use, when the coffeemaker requires cleaning, it emits a substantial amount of steam. This steam will dry out and damage the finish on your cabinets. I installed mine so the forward most 2 mounting holes are located just behind my 3/4" cabinet frame. This will keep steam as far forward of the cabinet doors as possible.
At this point my biggest complaint about my new Spacemaker SDC740 coffeemaker is that the clock gains 71/2 minutes a day. That means after a week, our coffee gets brewed 521/2 minutes too soon. I just went to K-Mart and bought a second SDC740. Unfortunately, every SDC740 they had, had a broken seal on the box. Does that mean someone had returned it already? The jury is still out. I'll check the clock tomorrow. I know that B&D was bought by Stanley recently. I hope they read these posts and do something about quality control.
I'm from the old country where they had no tolerance for defective products and defective quality control. They used to say "In zee old kontry vee shoot zem for zis"
PS. I don't believe in the death penalty, but could dismemberment or at least a public beating be appropriate?