ID: B00126SV6G-RC8MB3QHW0DDY-A2NPL4ADWSCH91
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Portable-Media-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A2NPL4ADWSCH91
ReviewerName: C Will
Date: November 29, 2008
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Need a player for audio books?  This is the one!!
Content:
I had originally purchased a Microsoft Zune because I thought it would be user-friendly like its other products/programs...WRONG!  So, back it went and I did some more research and chose this Creative Zen and I am so very pleased with it!!
PROS:
1.  Great price for 16gb
2.  Very user-friendly.  I was able to add music, videos and pictures without a problem.  In fact, when I tried to add a picture to the Zen that was not compatible, the Zen program asked if I wanted it to convert the picture to a compatible format!
3.  Zen downloads audio books from my state library website from the get-go...no special downloads needed (unlike Zune)
4.  The USB cable is super short -- about 5 inches.  At first it bothered me that the Zen dangled from the USB cable while it was charging, but now I like it because I know at a glance which cable is for the Zen among my many USB cables for my digital camera, camcorder, etc., and the Zen is so light that it won't damage the Zen or my computer USB port.  ALSO, my cats can't step on the Zen because it's up out of the way.
CONS: 
Only one that I've found...the screen protector that comes on the Zen can't be used to protect the screen because it has printing on it, so you really want to purchase one according to other reviewers who said the screen scratches easily.  And, I'm going to listen BEFORE the screen gets scratched.
RECOMMENDATION:  Purchase a good leather case to protect the unit.  I am VERY pleased with the following case that I purchased.  It was not sold directly by Amazon but from a vendor (Enforcity), so I had to pay shipping but it was only $2.98.  Enforcity mailed it the very next day and I am extremely pleased with it:
Full Flap Leather Case for Creative Zen, Black
I also used Amazon's customer service help line:  1-866-216-1072
because I had several questions about the Creative Zen.  The rep was  super friendly and answered my questions so that I could make an informed decision.  I won't hesitate to use this number in the future when I have questions about products that I am thinking of purchasing.