ID: B0016J27YQ-R2NCS4QHCUL3AJ-A20F6TQYBWTUCC
Category: AirConditioners
Product: NewAir-AF-330-Portable-Evaporative-Purifier
ReviewerID: A20F6TQYBWTUCC
ReviewerName: guest808
Date: May 3, 2008
Helpful: 10 of 16
Rating: 4.0
Title: Was skeptical...great purchase.
Content:
When my mobile home was being built we had the option of A/C or a Swamp cooler. We talked to several people and they advised getting the A/C unit, and so we did. What a huge mistake! During the summer with the thermostat set at 85 degrees that's right 85 our electric bill jumped through the roof...more then $300.00 a month. WTF!
This year the heat started early so I searched the internet for a solution, and was intrigued by the AF-330 but very skeptical. I purchased two units putting them on opposite sides of our home, and I'm very happy  with the performance of the AF-330. I'm not sure what our savings are going to be since these only operate at 85W,and I only have had them for about a week....but I'm sure it'll much less then running the A/C.
Here are some tips to enhance the performance of the unit and address some issues some people have with it.
1. Replacement filters:
I emailed the manufacturer and they informed me that if you need replacement filters you can call them and order the filters over the phone. It would be nice to be able to buy the filters via their website, but now you know how to obtain them.
2. Adding water:
If the unit is empty and unplugged simply remove the back panel and fill it up that way...it doesn't get any faster then that, unless you have a unit that is connected to a hose(not this model). Keep a few bottles of water in your fridge and top off as needed...which is only once or twice a day. It's a very easy thing to do. I don't recommend removing the back all the time to fill the unit, as some people may forget to unplug the unit and then they'll be subjected to possible physical harm or damage to the unit. 
3. Ice:
Need extra cooling? Take the plastic ice tray, fill it with water and then freeze it. Once it's frozen simply put that large block of ice into the ice compartment. This is good because a large block of ice will melt slower then smaller pieces of ice. Basically there is more air contacting the smaller pieces of ice so it'll melt faster then a larger chunk of ice...but some people may feel the need to have the ice melt faster. In that case use the ice tray to carry the ice to the unit and pour the ice in...and of course you could use both methods and you'll get the best of both worlds.
4. Slanted floor:
I have a room in which the the floor slants towards the front of the machine, so the ice doesn't all flow to the holes at the rear of the unit. Since the unit is in a carpeted area, I have it in a plastic tub just in case there's a leak. I just put something underneath the tub, and the ice melts in the proper direction.
If they were to redesign the unit I'd only change a few things:
1. A larger hole for adding water.
2. A tilt feature to compensate for slanted floors.
3. A lid for the ice tray so it's easier to put in the freezer without spilling any water.
4. Vents in the front and back with air intake from the sides, although I have no idea how well that would work...I'm no engineer.
I would recommend the unit to friends.
I hope this helps any one who has are is going to purchase the AF-330.