ID: B00128SQDC-R2X88GZ51V6AXW-ASJLXOX1VD4DF
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G
ReviewerID: ASJLXOX1VD4DF
ReviewerName: Mahlers2nd "Mom of Many Interests"
Date: July 23, 2007
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Feels like "old school"!  BEWARE of the STRAP!!
Content:
I had a compact digital camera but I was never really satisfied with the results because I found it more difficult to "frame the shot" and see what I was really going to get.  So I found myself always going back to my trusty Nikon N60 so I could have a "real viewfinder" manually adjust the zoom and see what the light meter was saying.  
So when I had the chance to swap my Marriott points for this camera I jumped at the chance.  I actually got this camera for free but would gladly have paid the money knowing what I know now.  This camera has the feel of a traditional SLR but the digital results are incredible.  Transferring to my PC was a no-brainer -- just hook up to the USB port and the computer does the rest.  I didn't have to install any drivers or anything.  
While you are able to get a good idea of how the shot turned out real time by looking at the camera display, you don't realize just how good the pictures are until you see them on your computer screen.  Don't like a shot?  Just delete it.  Don't have to worry about burning film.
I do have to admit that the menu system etc is taking a bit of getting used to.  For example, when I take a picture of a sunset, on "replay" the brighter sky flashes making you think that it isn't going to turn out.  However, when you actually load it onto the computer, it looks fine.  Also, the metering -- which can be spot metering or over the fuller frame is kind of tricky to pick out the right point so that you get the best auto focus for the shot.  The auto-focus can be temperamental under certain circumstances -- mostly involving extremes in lighting.  Sometimes, I can't get the shutter to release and I have no idea why.  However, I'm not going to hold my ignorance against Nikon since this probably isn't really intended to be a simple "point and shoot".
I DO have one problem with Nikon, though -- BEWARE of the strap!!!  I put the strap that was included with the camera on so that I could wear it on my neck.  I picked the camera up by the strap and on the first weekend I was using the camera, the strap came undone and the camera dropped about 4 feet to the ground.  Fortunately the only thing that broke was the sky filter that I had placed over the original lens -- I was very lucky that the original lens was not scratched by the shards of glass or that the camera itself was not damaged.  So if you do buy this camera, make sure that you have a decent strap or always just hold the camera directly in your hand.