ID: B0012Y88QQ-R369AEMDUWJR15-A1X1N1RHFIOCRF
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A1X1N1RHFIOCRF
ReviewerName: C. Wys
Date: March 3, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: A powerful weapon for creativity
Content:
I should preface that I have been exposed to point-and-shoots my entire life, so I am a very fresh amateur when it comes to SLRs.
I have found it incredibly beneficial to educate myself before my purchase of the XSi about what SLR cameras are, how they function on a basic level, precisely how they differ from point-and-shoots, and what I can expect to achieve from my new camera.  People who do not at least touch on these topics before their submersion into the world of SLRs will find the acclimation much more difficult, if not intolerable (as some very mislaid one-star reviews illustrate).
My XSi has helped me reach untapped creative potential that I hadn't deeply considered before.  I am an artist, a painter, and my primary reasons for getting an XSi teeter between photographing my paintings for my personal records and for sale on the Internet as well as for my introduction into the realm of artistic, fine art photography.  In my first few weeks of use, I can say unequivocally, and rather giddily, that the XSi achieves my hopes and quite a bit more.
My first reason for upgrading to the XSi, and to an SLR in general, is image quality.  I simply wasn't content with the grain, blur, and poor coloring that most point-and-shoots afford.  Aside from using my camera for normal, everyday portrait, indoor, and vacation shots, I also wish to use it professionally, to photograph my artwork and to take artistic photographs.  Clarity and integrity of the image are enormously welcomed with the former, average tasks and absolutely essential in the latter, more artistically focused ones.  The XSi allows me to achieve crispness, faithfulness with colors, and -- THANK GOODNESS -- far less, or absolutely no, grain in my images when shooting indoors.  I am as happy as a bird with a French fry.
I have to urge that practice makes perfect for an SLR beginner.  There are a plethora of settings, terminology, and camera hardware that require education to comprehend and perfect.  I am new, I am learning, and I am enjoying the process of unlocking the powers of my XSi camera.  I imagine it will be some time before I can consider myself rather well informed about what the camera can achieve, but even out of the box and into my amateur arms, the camera takes spectacular photographs!  As extremely complex machines go, this camera is insanely easy to navigate and control.  The buttons on the camera itself are perfectly placed, and the menus on the large LCD screen are just as easy to maneuver.  I am thoroughly impressed with the ease of use.  I have zero complaints.
One would do well to browse the web for information about the features and functions of the Canon XSi before the camera even arrives.  I spent a few hours reading and watching some very helpful videos on sites like YouTube to familiarize myself with the capabilities of the camera before the box arrived at my door.  I can tell you without doubt that the information I learned before I laid eyes on my camera helped tremendously.  I knew what buttons to push as soon as I had my hands on it!
More specifically, I have no complaints about any elements that came with the camera.  The kit lens is superb - and that truly may be the only lens you ever need.  I did purchase the f1.8 II 50mm Canon lens at the same time I purchased the camera on Amazon, simply because I was so impressed with the customer photographs that had been uploaded as examples.  The clarity achieved with the XSi kit lens is stellar, but I think the 50mm lens is a beautiful accessory to treat yourself to... it takes unique images that can only be achieve with that particular lens.
I also purchased an extra Canon battery so that I never have any camera downtime spent charging.  The extra battery was a pricey $50 more, but I have already enjoyed the ease of having two batteries a great deal since owning my camera... well worth the money.  I also purchased cheap filters to fit the kit lens of the XSi and I have already noticed higher color saturation in certain instances when using a polarizing filter.  It's great fun to experiment!
Out of doors and indoors, the XSi performs masterfully.  In low light and in high light, the XSi performs masterfully.  I am a student with very little discretionary funding, so I had reservations about spending so much on a camera.  I haven't looked back since getting my silver XSi, and there's simply no hint of buyer's remorse here.  Put plainly: you get what you pay for here and I wager even a bit more.  I am in passionate love.
Buy her.  Now.