ID: B0012Y89JW-RQCIUSRPZJ6VJ-A2906N9V5I3H6H
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-XSI-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A2906N9V5I3H6H
ReviewerName: Michael Developer "amazon3748"
Date: July 29, 2008
Helpful: 15 of 16
Rating: 5.0
Title: Honestly, I hate it
Content:
I hate this camera because it exposes what a crappy photographer I am. Many of my pictures come out "so-so" right now and marginally better than my point and shoot. Spending a little time to get off the autofocus and use manual controls yielded pictures that far surpassed my old 7MP Nikon when dealing with moving objects, which was my primary challenge. I am concerned with the 50,000 picture rating for the shutter since I've already shot 800 pictures in just the first 20 days of owning this camera (you can shoot a lot at a sporting event) but, for the price, it was unbeatable with a decent, versatile stock lens. I'm now realizing the limitations of the lens and what separates the low from the high but this camera is a learning experience for anyone who doesn't really shoot at a high level. It will require you to invest the time to get excellent pictures out. You'll be disappointed like myself in the same way getting a great HDTV brings out the limtiations of standard cable. But look at it this way - once you start learning about the basics, e.g. the relationship of ISO to aperture to shutter speed and setting the priority mode, etc. you're on your way to pictures that are far superior to your point and shoot and difficult to go back. Apparently it doesn't have all the fine settings of the 40D nor the 100K shutter rating but I'm not sure it matters at this price. If you want a sub-$800 SLR with a decent stock lens, there is no better camera, and I was hoping the Nikon D60 would be my choice. Not so. Learning all the detailed options that are still remaining made me realize now that this camera has far more important features than the competition, all which requires an investment in photography to get great pictures. It's a crime with this camera to even think of using the auto-settings.