ID: B00150IYRU-R20LW6F9CX47DO-A3V6Z4RCDGRC44
Category: Laptops
Product: Dell-Vostro-1500-2x1-6GHz-802-11g
ReviewerID: A3V6Z4RCDGRC44
ReviewerName: Lisa Shea "LisaShea.com"
Date: November 30, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Reliably Useful for Over a Year
Content:
The Dell Vostro 1500 comes in a few configurations. I have the setup with 2 gig of RAM and a duo CPU T7250 @ 2.00 GHz. I'm running Windows Vista on it, which I love.
My previous laptop was a Sony Vaio which had an awesome screen display but was as heavy as a full set of weights. OK, I exaggerate - slightly. It was massively heavy, and loud, and the keyboard had issues. I finally gave that to a college student to use as a small desktop machine and upgraded myself to this Dell Vostro 1500.
I have been using my Dell Vostro for just over a year now. I am VERY pleased with it. It is light, quiet, the screen display is great, and it has been incredibly reliable. I pound on my laptop for hours every day, doing a ton of typing. I run websites from my home. Any time I travel my laptop goes with me and I am on it several hours a day from my remote location. The Dell has never caused me any issues at all.
The screen display is great. I do a fair amount of graphics work, including judging photo entries for a literary magazine. The Dell's screen lets me accurately view colors and see images with sharp clarity.
I do video game testing and have tested several games out on this laptop - everything works quite fine. I haven't run into any issues.
The touch mousepad area works quite fine. I use it constantly during the day and while I do get the occasional "jump" it is no different than any other laptop I've used in that regard.
Really, there is only one minor issue I've ever had with this laptop. If I am wearing shorts and have the laptop sitting on the bare skin of my legs, every once in a while I will get a sharp pain in my leg, as if it was zapped by something. I have to believe that there's some sort of metal or something that creates an electrical circuit and zaps me. It's not an every fifteen minute thing - more like a once every two or three days thing. Still, it's annoying enough that I have to find a throw to put between my legs and the laptop to keep it from happening. So I would warn people not to use the laptop on bare skin unless they enjoy that type of sensation.
Still, an awesome laptop and one that has really shown its worth over the past year. Highly recommended!