ID: B001FA1NEQ-R1FBM8ZEAU21QQ-A2Y4S4CNGKF21S
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Black-Generation-Previous-Model
ReviewerID: A2Y4S4CNGKF21S
ReviewerName: H. Swanson
Date: February 14, 2009
Helpful: 0 of 3
Rating: 2.0
Title: I would not buy this again.
Content:
I decided to try this 4th Generation as my first Ipod after wanting a change from my Zune. Knowing what I know now, I wish I'd never spent the money. People always rave about Ipods, and I have no idea why! I am coming from the perspective of having owned another top MP3 player for (the Zune) for about 3 years, from owning a Sony Jukebox for about 2yrs,  and from having owned this Ipod since its release. I can honestly tell you that this thing is usually a pain to use, and it's not worth it's weight to me. I wanted something efficient, quick, and with no hassle. This Ipod gives me hassle, mostly because of the annoying "Shake to shuffle" feature. I'm not sure if you can deactivate this (you probably can), but for my particular model, the shake is messed up. It sometimes shuffles upon the weakest little movement, like me lightly setting it into my purse, and sometimes it refuses to shuffle at all (I've noticed this usually applies to an individual song... switch the song, and then the shuffle might work. Whatever.) The software was also very annoying for me. Like I said, this is my first Ipod, and I was turned off by the slow software compared to the Zune's. I don't like how you have to "eject" your Ipod from your computer (if I forget to press Eject, I experience freezing or other problems). This is the first MP3 program that's required me to do anything of the sort, so I don't see why it's necessary. This Ipod has frozen on me twice already in a way that required complete resetting of the system. Sometimes the volume goes out of control on me. 
I don't know, maybe I have a faulty model, but it's enough to make me look down on Ipods from now on. I'm giving it 2 stars because it's very light and compact, and MOST days it does play completely fine.