ID: B001E532ZA-R3G2QZTS2QLTW5-A238GHJ9SU3BKU
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Bosch-TAS4511UC-Tassimo-Single-Serve-Coffee
ReviewerID: A238GHJ9SU3BKU
ReviewerName: C. Seltzer
Date: July 25, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great tasting coffee
Content:
This maker makes great tasting coffee.  I have been very resistant to the single cup makers - we have a K-Cup system at work, because I don't like the cost per cup,the waste (non-recycleable), and frankly didn't think it makes very good coffee.  When my coffee maker broke, and I was researching a replacement, I found this Tassimo system on Amazon, and liked the reveiws.  Thinking that the rest of the family might like it with hot cocoa and tea options, I took the plunge and asked for one for father's day.
Pros:
Great tasting coffee.  I now really enjoy each cup rather than just drink it.
Ability to make different types at once.  A decaf for one person, a capacino for another, mild for her, strong for me.
Fast.  In the morning or evening you go from wanting one to sipping on one in no time.
Great selection of different types that are very unique from each other.
Cons:
Cost per cup.  Not much more than K-cups but compared to brew your own it is pricey.  Cheap compared to in-store purchases.
Waste and storage of the T Discs.  We have lots around.
Local availability of discs.  Joined the Tassimo monthly ship club, so that is no big deal.
Flavors:
Coffee - Starbucks and Seattle's Best are amazing.  Especially African Kitamo and Henry's Blend.  Very dark and strong and wonderful.
Maxwell house and Gevalia are nice smooth milder brews.  Maxwell house is surprisingly good.
The capachino and latte's are a surprisingly fun treat and come out well.  While I don't expect to have them much, I must admit I do enjoy them.
Hot chocolate.  Both types are good.  The Milka is not what we expect in the US, but interesting, the Suchard is just great hot chocolate.
The teas are also great - but the selection limited.