ID: B0012YA85A-R11HKZ2LO3MAM8-A3A4ZAIBQWKOZS
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Camera-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A3A4ZAIBQWKOZS
ReviewerName: Stephen Lerch
Date: March 1, 2010
Helpful: 18 of 18
Rating: 5.0
Title: Some points to consider when looking at DSLRs in this price range
Content:
If you're looking at the cameras in this price range, that means you're likely also looking at the Pentax K-x, Nikon D5000, Sony A500, Olympus E-620 and even, potentially, the Canon T1i.
If you're looking at DSLRs and you think video on your DSLR is something you actually want or will ever use, you best stop looking at the XSi and instead focus on the K-x, D5000 and T1i. The XSi offers NO video functionality.
If your hope is to not need to spend extra money on image stabilizing lenses, then buy the K-x or the E-620. All the above listed cameras besides these 2 require you purchase lenses with image stabilization which is an extra cost on the lens as it requires more glass. Of course, the way around the need for image stabilizing lenses is to use a tripod or a monopod.
If you don't want to buy lenses, well, then you had better stop looking at DSLR/SLR cameras all together and jump into point and shoot. There are a lot of nice models with really good quality pictures out there.
REMEMBER, WHEN BUYING A DSLR CAMERA, you aren't REALLY buying a camera; you're buying a lens system. What do I mean? Well think about it this way. You are spending money on a camera body, yes. But you're also spending money on lenses. Lenses that are NOT interchangeable (except the Olympus method that not many manufacturers jumped on and then you still have to buy lenses to their spec and you would need a replacement camera with the same capability). If you buy this body today and begin to purchase Canon lenses, you are investing in Canon for, most likely, the rest of your picture taking "career." The camera body is the inexpensive part in this whole endeavor and if you purchase a 55-250mm lens today, along with many others, you most certainly won't want to re-purchase these lenses when you inevitably have to upgrade the camera. And that's where DSLR/SLR camera manufacturers get you. It's like Gillette and their disposable razor heads.
So why then, given all the above, would one purchase the XSi over all the competition? Price is one factor. Image quality is another (the pictures this camera can take are nothing short of breathtaking, but that's all a matter of opinion, so this is just my opinion and not a statement of fact I can quantify). One more is lens quality. Canon (well, really all the above) have been making lenses for YEARS. And in the lens department Canon and Nikon stand above the rest. 
Why did I purchase this camera? Well Canon has been around a long time and actually started the DSLR revolution with the original Rebel camera. Their cameras always stand well on their own. While they may not stand head and shoulders above every camera out there, they do a tremendous job of holding their own in the market. My father owns a Rebel XT and it's an amazing piece of kit for when it was made. I bought this one because the T1i supposedly has some photo aberrations usually attributed to the sensor size that actually captures the image being too small to really utilize the 15 MP picture it is taking.
The price is good, I bought a brand I know and I can share lenses with my father. That's why I bought this camera.
I realize this review is pretty jumbled. Instead of writing a full review, as there are many other reviews here that do a much better job than I describing technical and non-technical details, I decided to just put down things I was thinking about as I purchased my first DSLR.