ID: B001EDZ6I8-R6UJEZ6HIRLNR-A2LXX47A0KMJVX
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Vornado-EH1-0039-06-225-Watt-SoleAire-Personal
ReviewerID: A2LXX47A0KMJVX
ReviewerName: M. Erb
Date: January 6, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 3.0
Title: Not perfect but does provide some warmth and comfort for your feet
Content:
Length:: 4:07 MinsThe Vornado SoleAire has a gentle, fan-driven heat that blows warmed air through the foot rest from a series of small holes. This warm air will keep your feet warm. Operation of the device is controlled by two rocker switches, one controls on/off, the other controls the level of heat. The heat can be set to Low, High or Fan Only. The unit conveniently shuts off after 4 hours of operation as a safety precaution. After turning the unit off and waiting for at least 30 seconds before turning the unit back on will reset the auto shut-off for another 4-hour period.
The unit, if placed under a typical metal office desk, will keep your feet warm and also provide a modest amount of heat for your legs but with its miserly power consumption of only 225 watts, don't expect it to warm an entire room... it is not designed for that.
The knobby footrest does feel good when you move your feet over its bumps. The rubber base pads keep the unit from sliding and the rocker switches can be operated by dexterous toes. The biggest complaint I have is with the smell that comes out of the unit when operating. The company claims that this will dissipate as time goes on. The fan is also a bit noisy. Although the noise generated by the fan is not that loud, it is something you will hear (and probably get used to in short order).  
I had a problem with my initial unit that required a warranty replacement. Vornado customer support was extremely courteous and handled the problem perfectly with no hassle whatsoever.
Pros
-It keeps your feet warm and can also just blow room temperature air during hot days to keep your feet cooler.
-It has a convenient auto shut-off after 4 hours
-Bumps on foot rest feel good to your feet
-Excellent customer service
Cons
-Fan is a bit noisy
-Odor from operation