ID: B001G8Y2WW-R5MIVV9UKC0BW-A29VG90T649CSU
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-650BC-Thermal-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A29VG90T649CSU
ReviewerName: Marilyn Falcon
Date: April 24, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great coffee maker, right price!
Content:
I purchased this model to replace an older model Cuisinart grind and brew coffee maker with a glass carafe. My old Cuisinart was not broken at all and has served me well for several years, but I had been wanting a coffee maker with a thermal carafe for some time. So, I researched those that are available on Amazon, checked out the features and the prices and the reviews, and decided on this model.
I am happy to report that I am very pleased that I decided to try the DGB-650BC! The set-up is simple, especially if you have owned a Cuisinart in the past (although it is still easy even if you previously owned another brand of coffee maker). The coffee comes out perfect, even with the first brew.
There were several models of grind and brew machines available with advanced features for controlling the strength of the brew, etc. But the reviews on these other makers seemed to imply that many times people were not at all satisfied with the performance of these advanced features. And, you really have to pay top dollar for the features, too.
So how do you control the brew strength on this machine? The old fashioned way. You purchase a lighter or a darker roast coffee, and/or you add more or less coffee to the coffee maker before brewing, until you get your cup of Joe at the perfect strength for you!
And, yes, while it is grinding and brewing this coffee maker can be a bit noisy, so if that is one of your pet peeves, don't purchase this model. Personally, I am not at all bothered by the sound of my coffee brewing, and certainly not enough to pay an extra two hundred dollars for 6-8 minutes of less sound each time I brew a pot of coffee!
The thermal carafe works perfect. In fact, the first pot that I made, I had a great cup of coffee right after it finished brewing, and then didn't get around to grabbing another cup until 4 hours later, and it was still warm! I enjoyed that cup, too; it tasted fresh, without the "burnt" flavor my old coffee maker would have imparted after that much time.
Also, I use a very oily, dark roast bean, and I have had no trouble grinding these beans with this coffee maker.
This is a great, programmable, grind and brew thermal coffee maker at an affordable price. If that's what you are looking for, I think you found it!