ID: B001F7AHXW-RYPKZCPPFJ282-A3DLXXAJSC3RVQ
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-classic-Silver-Generation-Previous
ReviewerID: A3DLXXAJSC3RVQ
ReviewerName: D. Skatter
Date: September 25, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: The workhorse of the iPod line. Capacity and battery life unmatched.
Content:
I've been an iPod user since the original 5 GB model back in 2001, and I must admit that I've been captured by the iPod touch for quite a while.
After a while, however, I got tired of rotating my collection through the meager 32 gigs available to me on my 1st-gen touch, and decided to snag a 120GB Classic to jam it all in there.
VERY wise decision. The Classic doesn't have a lot of bells and whistles compared to the slick iPod touch and the iPod nano models available today. But what it DOES have is impressive capacity and astonishing battery life.
The only iPod available with a hard drive (I speak of the Classic line in general, not just this model), you get more than enough space for most people's music collections to carry with you wherever you go. Sure, not everyone NEEDS to bring everything with them, but those that do appreciate the capacity.
The screen is definitely not the most impressive in the world, especially compared to the iPod touch's much larger touchscreen. But for everyday usage, the classic's bright yet smallish screen is quite adequate and very clear and readable.
Amusingly enough, I carry both my 32 gig iPod touch with me as well as this one. The difference is, the touch has become my palmtop computer. The classic has become my workhorse, my mobile jukebox, the iPod that I use to play every scrap of audio I own. Sure, the interface hasn't significantly changed since the first 80/160 gig models a couple of years ago...but it hasn't NEEDED to. This is the iPod you get when capacity and battery life outweigh every other consideration.
As long as you're saving money on this model over the newly released 160 gig model that retails for $249.99, there's no reason at all NOT to get this iPod. However, if you don't mind spending a little bit more, that extra 40 gigs is a nice extra cushion for the larger collections and should work nicely until we start seeing a 500 gig iPod (I hope) next year. :D
Now if Apple could just make a Classic that doesn't have the scratches-if-you-glance-at-it metal back...