ID: B001G5ZTMM-R11ZFPAWR60K64-A17GK5UD3Q18F1
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-EOS-5D-Mark-II
ReviewerID: A17GK5UD3Q18F1
ReviewerName: A. Kim
Date: January 22, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Favorite camera yet
Content:
I purchased this camera to use whenever I didn't need my 1D (too heavy to carry around Disneyland).  It's been just about a year and so far, I absolutely love it and gave it a 5 star rating and here are the reason why:
Ease of use: coming from other Canon bodies, the controls and function of the camera was a breeze. Infact, some new items in the menu, such as My Menu, allows you to add your most used functions and is very easily accessed.  I've heard Nikon users complaining that Canon controls are difficult and not layout well.  Newsflash: Canon is a completely different system and therefore, is going to be different.  I can control my Canon by touch in total darkness, but put a Nikon in my hands, I'm lost.
Image/Picture Quality: it's a Canon with a full size sensor.  They are the pioneers and leaders in CMOS sensors for DSLRs and their dedication shows.  I have no probem shooting ISO1600 and often shoot ISO6400 without much thought. I shoot mostly L series lens and the colors recorded is simply amazing.  Not over saturated like the other brand cameras, just really natural colors. Beautiful for shooting people, as well as nature.
Video Quality: at first I was very hesitant to accept the fact that my DSLR has a built-in video camera.  Once I got used to the idea of having a video camera and once I started tinkering with it, I was amazed.  Full HD video shot between stills, then all combined into a slideshow is just awesome!  The actual video quality is breathtaking.  Just like anything else full HD, the clarity seems too good to be true.  Sound is OK, but if I were to do more video capture with my camera, I would definitely purchase an external mic.  If shooting video is your thing, there is NO better video camera out there.  You can spend $10K on a video camera, but bottom line is, the quality isn't going to be as good as the Canon 5DMKII due to the size of the image sensor.  As far as I know, there are no video cameras with an image sensor that's comparable to the Canon 5DMKII. What's more, you can use any of the Canon lens to shoot video with.
Weather Sealing:  there seem to be a lot of people out there concerned about the quality of Canon's weather sealing. My experience with the weather seals have all been positive.  I've been in sand storms (desert), full down pour raining (Alaska, Hawaii, etc), and even extreme dust (popcorn ceiling scraped, walls torn down, drywall dust everywhere) and so far, NOTHING, NO DUST inside the camera!  That's amazing! I'd say the camera is pretty well sealed against the environment.
Durability:  Don't let the lightweight magnesium alloy body fool you.  Just because it's light doesn't mean it's weak.  It just means it's easier to carry and handle all day long.  I was walking and shooting a subject one day and tripped on a curb.  I fell over and managed to not land on the camera, but the camera's body did strike the side of the curb.  Yes, it left a gash mark down to bare metal, but the camera is still totally fine.
BOTTOM LINE:  great tool.  Best camera I've ever used.