ID: B0012YA85A-R2VVTJTAAS9BUP-A38DQSVRIXBP00
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Camera-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A38DQSVRIXBP00
ReviewerName: H. S. Pope "Spidurman"
Date: August 31, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great camera! Excellent step up from a high-end point-and-shoot.
Content:
I just recently purchased this camera after getting frustrated with my two point-and-shoot cameras. One has a lot of advanced features, but is only 4.0MP (and is 4 years old). The other is 8.0MP, but has super basic features (almost remedial). I wanted to step up to a DSLR camera to combine the best of options of my other two cameras, but have the ability to expand my options as I continue to learn photography without buying a new camera.
I started out looking at the Canon Rebel T1i, which is an excellent camera, but was well-above my skill level. The XSi is still above my skill level at this point, but for the price, I could not pass up the opportunity to get an excellent camera that I could grown into. I received an great deal from my local warehouse club, which included two kit lenses (18-55mm and 55-250mm), a Canon gear bag (200DG) and a 2GB memory card.
From just a few days of use, I have taken some excellent pictures right out of the box, and have had a chance to mess around with some of the advanced features, which also produced great results.
The camera feels great in my hands (which are somewhat small) and is not too heavy, even with the zoom lens attached. The functions are easily adjusted without having to fumble through several levels in the menu.
The only drawback that I found with this camera is the extremely limited functions available in the full auto mode. For example, it may just be me, but I like using the LCD screen to take pictures sometimes. However, this option is not available in the Full Auto mode. You have to switch to one of the creative modes, for this option to be available. This purely an inconvenience, and is probably just an indication that I need to continue learning more about this camera, so I can get out of the Full Auto mode more often.
I would not recommend this camera for a casual shooter that is not willing to take the extra time to learn the advanced features. You could probably save a lot of money by just buying an advanced point-and-shoot camera that takes good pictures in Full Auto mode versus spending the extra money for features that you will never use.