ID: B00176AX6W-R2S9K2NXCWTEUY-A2TRCQVUSQEQU
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Red
ReviewerID: A2TRCQVUSQEQU
ReviewerName: devmode
Date: November 14, 2007
Helpful: 45 of 54
Rating: 4.0
Title: Better than I thought it would be
Content:
I have been an ipod owner for many years. I always had a good experience with them, but when it was time to get a new player none of their offerings really matched what I was looking for. Yes, the itouch is beautiful, but 16gb for that price ... not gonna do it.
When I saw the second generation Zune was coming out, I checked out the specifications and decided it was time to "switch".
What I like:
1. Solid engineering; it is heavier than an ipod and a little bit bigger, but I kind of like the weight of it. I even feel cool having it because it isn't the same mp3 player I see everyone else has -- that is pretty superficial though.
2. The touch wheel is actually a nice interface. This works great even though you do have to adjust to it a little. Navigating through menus is easy and they pretty much nailed it.
3. The menu system looks and works great ... makes some other devices appear "dumb". I hate to say it is hip, but yeah it is.
4. FM Radio ... granted I am a sirius user, but I was surprised how great this feature works. I am sure I will get a little use out of that. My gym has TVs that run sound on radio frequencies, and I was never able to listen to them with my ipod.
5. It has a nice sized screen. This was a good middle ground between the itouch and the ipod classic for me. When I thought about the features of the itouch that I would actually get the most out of it was the screen. This screen seems to have a good quality and you will see my negative comments of it below.
6. Good price for the features.
7. Good sound quality and a decent pair of included ear buds. I have owned a lot of ear buds including some higher end models like shure e2s. I think they supplied a pretty good pair. Beyond just the ear buds I think I can tell the difference compared to my ipod, but that might just be a new user euphoria experience.
8. Can customize the background -- adds that personal touch.
9. Wireless syncing.
What I don't like:
1. Video quality is not bad, but it could be better. If the resolution was higher I think this would be a 5 out of 5, but it really shouldn't be a deal breaker; it still looks pretty good.
2. The zune desktop software isn't shabby at all, but it does take a little getting used to. I have noticed a few things that are lacking or not working great. This is one of those areas where, hopefully, we won't suffer for long if releases are distrubuted periodically.
3. I wish the wireless syncing was faster and there were more options of when to do it. My network is setup in a way that causes a couple of trips between systems, so I probably am adding some latency. It is a cool feature to add one song, podcast or even an album, but I would like some more automation added.
 
I have only had it for 2 days now, but I am really glad I decided to get this compared to the ipod classic and the itouch. Both of those players have their good points, but the Zune seems to really fit with what I want and need.
Great player - it is a good buy - I am very happy with this purchase. I would give it 5 out of 5 stars if it only had a couple of slight improvements. As another reviewer said - 4.5 stars if it was possible.