ID: B001E532ZA-R1BK40M5DRMJJS-AGZKJ1RCAT9Z9
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Bosch-TAS4511UC-Tassimo-Single-Serve-Coffee
ReviewerID: AGZKJ1RCAT9Z9
ReviewerName: Amazonian Shopper
Date: December 13, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: WONDERFUL!!! Convenient, outstanding quality and design
Content:
I cannot recommend this little machine enough. It is one of THE BEST things I have EVER purchased!!! If you are addicted to Starbucks coffee, run, not walk, to buy this machine. Or if you drink coffee in general! It's a dream machine!
We toiled over buying another coffee-making appliance. We had bought a little drip coffee maker, which made horrible tasting stuff, and then, to conquer our Starbucks addiction, we'd decided to just bite the bullet and invest in a "real" espresso machine - pump, of course. But, after researching all the cleanup and care required for those pricey little buggers, we came to the conclusion it just would not fit our lifestyle and would not make sense to delve into such a hefty investment we might not have time to care for properly. 
My husband came across a magazine ad for this machine and then researched online. I had never looked into the single-serve genre of coffee makers before and was extremely skeptical, but I was surprised that the one I was looking at (this one) in addition to the Tassimo T65 (the model just above this), had the most positive reviews of all the machines out there. People were raving about this thing, while some of the reviews for the Keurig coffee maker had warnings like "makes coffee taste like plastic" and that sort of thing. I agreed we should give it a try, but still was skeptical about the taste. 
Now I know why people are raving positively about this one. It makes perfect delicious coffee every single time. And there's no cleanup. Ever. Well, you occasionally have to insert the "cleaning disc" which automatically cleans the machine, but that's it! And you can make espressos, cappucinos, lattes, hot chocolate, you name it! And the Tassimo has Starbucks brand discs available, which sold it for me. My favorite is the Starbucks latte primo or cappuccino primo. All Tassimo things creamy are made with real milk, as opposed to some fake alternative. And you can taste it. Very good, wonderful, can't believe we didn't buy one sooner. 
How does it work? You insert the t-disc (which has a barcode so the machine knows what temp to heat the water to), close, and push the button! It does not get any easier than that!
The down side? The discs are a little expensive (I'm really hoping they start to come down a bit), but you can't beat the convenience. No driving, no lines, no grinding, no mess, no nonsense. My only other hangup is that you are pumping hot water through plastic, which unless Tassimo tells me otherwise (are these "food-grade" plastic?), it is not necessarily great for avoiding plastic toxins. The good thing is that instead of boiling the water in plastic (which is what the common drip makers do these days) the water is heated through a super conductor - a small heated metal tube, which the water passes thru, which heats up the water quickly because it is compressed through such a thin tube. But the discs are in fact plastic and the water does pass thru the plastic to make the coffee. That said, all of the drinks we've made come out at drinking temperature, not boiling, so hopefully plastic chemical leaching is kept to a minimum. That's my only concern. But I would venture you probably get much more plastic contamination from a regular drip maker in which the coffee is boiled in that plastic resevoir. 
I LOVE the water filter feature included on this machine. I think it really does help with the taste. And the machine comes with 2 free filters, a plus. 
The Tassimo does create more consumer waste than a "real" espresso machine, or than an old fashioned drip maker, but if you're getting your coffee from Dunkin Donuts or Starbucks on a daily basis, your waste will be cut by this machine - at the coffeehouses you're drinking coffee from either plastic or styrofoam, so this will quite possibly cut back your plastic discard. And, I peel off the tops of these discs and toss them into my recycling bin. A pain, but it's better than throwing the whole thing out.
Now, does it TASTE like Starbucks? YES! At Starbucks, if you're a regular, you know your shots are perfect maybe 20% of the time. This makes perfect coffee every time. Absolutely delicious, and I was totally surprised. My husband prefers the Maxwell House cappuccino t-disc, which is a little cheaper, and available at the grocery store. 
My only mild complaint is that the espressos (cappuccinos, lattes) do not have as much "kick" as a fresh espresso shot from a pump machine. I do not know why this is the case. I'm guessing perhaps even though the grinds are vaccuum sealed or whatever they still lose some of their "oomph." So, I need a few t-discs to get the caffeine I need in a day. Which multiplies the cost. 
But overall, I LOVE IT! And, Tassimo has such a huge customer base that there are forums out there even with all kinds of drink suggestions and advice. Oh and it is nice and compact, and takes up less room than a toaster would on your counter, and looks great. This would make an excellent gift for any cofee or tea drinker!!! And with the $50 rebate, it's even better. I'm buying one for my inlaws!