ID: B001EQ4BVI-RN23QVC6DVRP-A3CJ7MHAS9IMAM
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-50D-15-1MP-Digital-Body
ReviewerID: A3CJ7MHAS9IMAM
ReviewerName: Dom Miliano
Date: August 31, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Canon 50D - Much more camera than the 40D
Content:
I started my Canon digital experience with the 40D and have been very happy with the images it produces. It has been flawlessly reliable, producing many thousands of images over the past 18 months. As a frequest shooter of motor sports, the fast focus and quick motor drive make shooting on-track action a joy. However, I also shoot "salon" work - posed pictures of classic cars - and some glossy, high-end magazines (rightly or wrongly) are demanding I send them huge files if I want the cover... 
Enter the 50D. 
With it's 50% larger Megapixel count when compared to the 40D, the RAW files are much bigger and more impressive to my editors. Recently, I shot a Ferrari event and because the best shots (salon immages) were shot RAW (making TIFF files of nearly 50MB) the chairman of the show wants to use one of my images for next year's poster. A compelling reason for the purchase and justifies the purchase of the camera on its first assignment. 
ASIDE - If you are a digital shooter, you know that you can get very large blow ups from relatively small files - I have a professionally printed 20X30 print I shot as a JPEG on a 6 MP camera. I used good technique (exposure, composition) and great glass(seriously expensive pro glass). It has been used on a magazine cover and is a great action shot of a Porsche airborn at a race track. But, being in the business and not the hobby of photography, I have to give my editors what they ask for and with the 50D, I can out-megapixel (almost) anybody on the staff.  
But the performance of the 50D is much more than megapixel count. It has great autofocus speed. Exposure in P mode (program) works best for me in fast moving situations although you always have to think about scenes where very light or very dark sections dominate the frame (the 18% reflectance rule still applies) and you should manually compensate to prevent blown highlights or all black shadows. Go back to what you learned in Photo 101 if I lost you. 
More on the features - I especially love the rear view screen. It is much brighter and sharper than the 40D's and on par with similar priced and higher priced cameras from Nikon. The 50D uses the fast-write Compact Flash cards so you can pump a lot of images onto the buffer when shooting at 6+ FPS.
I added the Canon grip which allows me to have 2 batteries on board. I have shot many hundreds of non-flash images and so far, I have never exhausted the battery (I use an external flash and not the amateur-oriented pop-up which helps). The grip also allows me to use AA batteries if the rechargable ones poop out.  
The camera seems to be very well sealed against dust and moisture - important since road course auto races run rain or shine. 
Finally, counting cool features is for gadget guys, the important results are in the quality of the pictures. In that arena, frankly, the 50D flat out delivers. I think it produces pro-quality images (assuming good quality - AKA "L" - glass is used) and so far, my editors seem to agree. 
I am not selling my 40D yet and continue to use it as a backup camera. But when the assignments demands big files and a chance to score a cover or a double-page spread, I will always reach for the 50D. 
For any Canon pro shooters out there - consider joining CPS - Canon just recently changed the program for the better and I recommend it highly.