ID: B001G5ZTLS-R1NILQ6115GOYG-AIB7GH9622AXM
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-EOS-5D-Mark-II
ReviewerID: AIB7GH9622AXM
ReviewerName: S. Alam "camateur"
Date: March 26, 2009
Helpful: 117 of 147
Rating: 3.0
Title: Good camera but consider alternatives
Content:
If you are heavily invested in Canon and own lots of their lenses, then your decision will be whether to buy the Canon 5D 1, or the new Canon 5D 2. In this regard, I would say the 5D 2 is the way to go because of increased ISO sensitivity, higher resolution, etc etc. 
VIDEO?
PLEASE do not buy this camera because of the video because you will most assuredly be disappointed. I too was wowed by watching the various videos circulating on the web... but beware that the best quality video is that taken with fast prime lenses (e.g. max aperture f 1.4). The camera in indoor lighting often prefers to open the aperture wide allowing more light in... sounds great... problem is that its all manual focus.. so you have a paper thin depth of field.. which can create artistic effects, but for any real home video, you would spend all your time concentrating on focusing back and forth. If you are the type of person who is interested enough to spend a lot of time and effort to create short video clips (e.g. commercials etc), then this is nice... but if you're thinking, great, I won't need my camcorder... you're going to have one sore focusing finger.
Not only that, I used to think the rolling shutter artifact was just people whining.. beware that it is not a minor artifact that bothers videophiles, it is a very real strange video artifact that can sometimes be very distracting and it can be present not just in panning, but also on still video. 
Shutter is still loud as hell, same as the 5D 1. AF is still very obsolete, like the 5D 1. 
That said, it is a great camera with wonderful quality, excellent resolution, and if you are a Canon guy/gal, you want this. 
----
If you are NOT a Canon guy/gal, consider the alternative. The Nikon D700. The advantage of the D700 is primarily in the greater more sophisticated 51 point 3d autofocus, which is essential for taking pics of moving objects well, such as kids. Even the most advanced camera in the world will be ridiculed if it can't focus well (ahem, 1d mark iii initially). 
Problems with the D700, choice of lenses is somewhat less than for Canon but obviously there are still plenty of lenses to choose from.. no video, that is minor since the video from the 5dii is not tremendously easy or useful. 
PROS 5D II:
High megapixel for printing large posters
Stunning HD Video when its good
Wide choice of lenses
CONS 5D II:
HD video difficult to use due to manual focus, all other settings auto
Loud shutter, hard to blend into background when shutter is that obnoxious
AF horribly obsolete, same as old 5D, shame on you Canon
PROS D700:
Advanced modern AF, same as on top models
Quiet shutter
Reviews show better build quality and better ergonomics (I find both to be  almost equal though)
CONS D700:
Lens choices slightly less
"Only" 12 megapixel, only problematic for very large posters
No video
-------------------
In the end, I returned the 5D mark ii and bought a D700 because I take pictures of live moving subjects, and AF is crucial. I have been very pleased. 
Picture quality of both cameras is equal (given that they are in focus). Before buying, please read other web reviews regarding 5DII ability to autofocus.