ID: B0012QUBTG-ROL6YTQE5FXZQ-ACQX5XXFWR7LI
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-Oil-Filled-Radiator-Heater-TRD0715T
ReviewerID: ACQX5XXFWR7LI
ReviewerName: Steve W
Date: October 1, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Cold Winter Mornings, Warm Morning Bathroom
Content:
It took me awhile to find a small portable heater that would turn itself on at a specific time as well as turn itself off at a specific time. Most portable heaters had timer shutoffs but required you to first turn them on. My goal was simple, warm up the bathroom before I got up in the morning. This Delonghi Model filled the bill. The timer mechanism which turns the heater on and off is accurate and reliable. The thermostat also works accurately and reliably to maintain a very even heat. 
It took a little experimentation to determine how long the heater had to run at the various heat settings to warm up the approx 10X10 bathroom so I knew when to have it cut on to raise the temperature to the desired level for my early morning wakeup trip. Long story made short, it works quite well in achieving the desired result... I have it set to turn on two hours before I get up and the bathroom is, as a result, toasty enough each morning. I should disclose that the heater operates in a bathroom with a 12' ceiling which is a bit taller than the typical 8' ceiling more commonly found...it requires a longer warm up time as a result. I can also report that the heater is totally silent. The only sounds I've ever heard are some very light tapping sounds of very short duration when it first comes on and up to temperature(tis the nature of applying heat to metal). Same thing happens when it shuts off and begins to cool down. I should emphasize that these sounds are very subtle and of short duration. Barely noticeable. 
I have read some other comments regarding an odor emission. I noticed the same thing the first couple of times it was used but absolutely nothing since. I'm sure it was some kind of protective coating they apply to the surface at time of manufacture. In any case, with the exception of it's initial break-in, no odors since. 
Summary: Very pleased with the performance of this space heater for my purpose. It's not designed or built to heat large areas but is quite effective and efficient in heating modestly sized areas. I really like the convenience of automatic turn on and off, which by the way can easily be suspended or readjusted as necessary. Because it is of the convection type design it provides a very even heating without the hot spots the small forced air heaters can generate. I would deem it safe to use around children and pets as well. No extremely hot exposed surfaces and has the required safety shutoff mechanisms if the unit should ever get knocked over.