ID: B0013FLU96-R3CYKM36TF8IKO-A2ETIV1HQ2H4SN
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB133LL-15-4-inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: A2ETIV1HQ2H4SN
ReviewerName: Mutulu1
Date: June 2, 2008
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Notebook Perfection
Content:
The macbook pro quite simply is the best notebook on the current market.  Currently on my third notebook ( the white & black macbook) I decided to upgrade to the pro.  If your like me and actually don't mind a larger notebook screen and paying for improved features, then this notebook is for you.  First off, you're getting a 2.4ghz processor (avoid the 2.5ghz pro, $500 for 1/10 faster processor and 50 gigs is not worth it to me), 200 gigs, dvd superdrive, 15.4 inch screen in either glossy or matted.  By the way, for those not sure which screen to choose, definitly go with the matted.  It's the best screen currently offered.  If you believe like me you purchase a notebook to mobilze it, then you are going to mind glare, shadows, sun, and other images showing up behind your screen.  It also makes sense if you are using the mbp for photo or video editing.  Glossy does not give you the true version of your images or video before moving them to dvd or image paper, rather what you look @ on matted is exactly what you're printing.  Gamers might prefer glossy.  The aluminum finish is flawless as well as the upgrades trackpad features similar to those on mba and the iphone.  I don't find myself using those features much, but it comes in handy when needed.  This machine is also an eye catcher.  i stopped @ panera bread w/ my wife after work to find 6 people asking me to see the pro.  This mbp is my primary computer (have a desktop pc and wife uses macbook white) and it's pretty much all i need.  Everything is on this computer and it doesn't miss a beat!  This machine is costly running @ 1,999.99.  However, you have to weigh the options; If you want a desktop notebook that has a large enough screen, tremendous features and fast processor and would like taking it on your deck, couch during a game, or to work, get this.  If you just need a machine parked @ the house for multiple users (family of 4??) this might not be the investment for you.  I prefer a computer for each person to avoid confusion.  Also recommend, Apeture 2, iWork, and time capsule for back up.  The only con I can give this machine is its opening latch button in the front.  I find it a bit small and you have to give it a good poke to open it.  That's pretty much it, get this machine!!