ID: B001B1VGQE-R2KDX8Q9897GOI-AWBSCFHOKBTVY
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Soleus-Air-HGW-308R-Micathermic-Heater
ReviewerID: AWBSCFHOKBTVY
ReviewerName: Michael Murphy
Date: January 2, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: So far so excellent
Content:
I've just had this a short time and have been testing it out, so I can't speak to the reliability issues that some have raises. I do think that problem units tend to make it into these reviews more than the trouble free ones. After all, if you get a lemon you are highly motivated to tell the world. 
This unit heats my room up much faster than the 1500w Deloughi oil unit that I tried. It is much quieter than the Sunbeam quartz unit that I tried. There is a slight hum when it is heating, but not at all objectionable. There is definitely some radiant effect that you can feel several feet away so it can be used as an instant-heat, personal heater. I find the thermostat to be fairly accurate. The room has been running 1 or 2 degrees hotter than the setting. Room is 180 sq. ft.
I am concerned about EMF radiation, so I tested it with a gauss meter. It gets into the "safe" range at about 32" (2 gauss). The reading is negligible at about 52" (.01 gauss). If you don't know what I am talking about, you should do some research if you want to avoid cancer. Most heaters are a little less, but I find this acceptable in the room I am using. 
I like the remote because I do healing work in this room and I can adjust the temp without getting up from massage table. Back to reliability: I can't say for this unit, but I have used a Soleus dehumidifier for two summers and it is an outstanding machine. I give this unit a 4 because of others reliability experiences and the slightly higher EMF. As far as performance is concerned, I am thrilled. I needed a machine that was efficient and quiet and this fills the bill. Oil and quartz fell short of the mark. I had planned to get a mechanical thermostat model but they were out. I spent $10 more for the digital and like the way it works and the remote, I think the mechanical would have been more reliable in the long run however. When a digital unit dies it is usually the electronics that fail. (I am a former repairman)