ID: B001F7AHXW-R35OTJKY5LBA93-A3OSSB0XEWGT8E
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-classic-Silver-Generation-Previous
ReviewerID: A3OSSB0XEWGT8E
ReviewerName: Paul Lee
Date: December 17, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 5
Rating: 3.0
Title: Not Fantastic
Content:
The iPod classic was a clear attempt by apple to produce an mp3 player that would appeal to those who have 1) a sizable library of music, 2) and hence demand good quality in the playback as well. 
ultimately, the target market for the iPod classic are people who take an exceptional joy in listening to their music and would not mind a portable media player that will play videos of a smaller size, and generally has much fewer ornamental functions. 
Discounting those functions, and plainly looking at the iPod classic as a music player, i was highly disappointed at how it failed to capture the essence of much of the music i listen to. Many reviews critiqued the classic as having a crisper sound, in exchange for a poor midrange treble. The truth is, the lack of midrange treble was so intense certain bass beats can even be made to sound hollow. 
My previous mp3 player was one far inferior- a 4GB iPod nano 2nd Generation, and I got sick of pulling my laptop around whenever i wanted to listen to a wide range of music. I cannot say that the sound quality of the classic is in any way superior to the nano despite it being released about 3 years later. Live performances played through the classic were unnaturally raw, and orchestral performances were made to sound exceptionally empty and lacking fullness and timbre when needed. jazz/ funk/ fusion bands which utilize pitch and timbre control to a great extent will find that their music has been magically weaved into a somewhat homogeneous mix. indeed, the hallmarks of an mp3 player that has bad sound quality is when even Rihanna's "Disturbia" sounds markedly more hollow on it.
Fortunately, most of these were made much better when the stock earphones were replaced by ones with a much better midrange response. There will be still a niggling lack of depth in the sound that will constantly bug me as i sift through my music. This niggling factor almost made me return the product and get perhaps a samsung or a creative player if just for that 3D sound effect.
Overall, the iPod classic was an ordinary mp3 player with very ordinary sound engineering. The only positives i could get out of it were that it held my library of music, and managed to do so with relative ease (i am sure other media players can do so as well) and has a reasonably long battery life. it also has quite a remarkable storage size for its price.
Remember what i said about lugging my laptop around when i wanted to listen to music earlier? well now it looks like i've got to contemplate between lugging the laptop around and wearing huge headphones to compensate for the poor sound quality.