ID: B001FA1NJG-R2WUR8FG4V02PQ-ADIEPB0AZ4RHE
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-120-Video-MP3-Player
ReviewerID: ADIEPB0AZ4RHE
ReviewerName: Robert T. Johnson
Date: November 14, 2008
Helpful: 9 of 43
Rating: 1.0
Title: Skip Skip Skip
Content:
I can not believe that the well known and mighty Microsoft would dare to think that this MP3 player or Zune would out perform a $30 MP3 player. 
	First just about any inexpensive $30 MP3 player would have an EQ function with either presets, such as Pop, Rock, Jazz or custom where by the listener can set the EQ levels to their musical taste well to my surprise the Zune has none. In fact the Zune has no EQ setting at all every song is played flat without any emphasis to the highs, mids or lows it's just flat and thin. I consider this missing function a very important and needed function and should not be treated as an unnecessary option. 
	Second any inexpensive MP3 player will allow the listener to listen to a album that's a compilation of artist, such as if the album is called "The Best of The Best" which may contain 10 songs from 10 different artist the Zune will list the album 10 times once for each artist and when attempting to play the album starting at track 1 you can't the Zune list and treat each artist as if it's a separate album you just can't start at tack 1 and play all the way thru to track 10, you must listen to track 1 then scroll to the next artist which is listed with the same album title, but different artist. Any inexpensive MP3 player would list the album with all the artist under the one album and not 10 albums.
	Third the Zune processing is strange the vocals are processed in a manner where by the vocals have some echo applied to give them an expansive feel which is unnatural and the vocals are moved to the back and the musical instruments are move to the front as if the vocals are lowered to sing karaoke and there's some strange shssssssssssssssss sound going on in the background.
	Fourth the software sucks big time, you must install the software in order for the device to be recognized by the computer and after installing the software you must use the Zune software to sync your songs to the Zune you can not just drag and drop, because the Zune does not appear under My Computer which by the way any cheap MP3 player would allow for drag and drop.
	For me I will send the Zune back, because for reasons mention above I owned a Creative Zen 20gb MP3 player and now I want it back from my son. The Zune has some great features don't get me wrong, but for me if it does not sound better than and perform better than a $30 MP3 player I can save $200 and be happy with a player that does not frustrate me with all the quirks.