ID: B0012QAXNA-R34UU9FAI1QH6G-A1IU4JZFDZA9HJ
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-10-2MP-Digital-Camera-Reduction
ReviewerID: A1IU4JZFDZA9HJ
ReviewerName: P. Boynton "Home Ec teacher"
Date: June 26, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: extremely versatile and easy to use
Content:
I tried quite a few cameras to upgrade from my 2003 Fuji, and in fact bought -and returned!-  a new Fuji, before this.   This Pentax K200D camera does an amazing number of things well.  Settings are easy to use, and it does very, very well just as a point-and-shoot on "automatic" setting.  The pictures are extremely nice in colors and detail.  
I am by no means a professional - I am still re-learning what a lot of those settings mean.  The camera does not overwhelm you with a zillion things, but does give you choices.   OR there are a lot of basic Scene modes, that do seem to work decently well, if you don't want to try to do the white balance, etc, on your own.  For an amateur like myself, who has to bend my brain to try to remember what those things are at all, it is a great way to pick it up without being overwhelmed with a professional camera.   And there have been times when I don't have time to try out these things, so I just put it on automatic and let it figure it out as I switch from bright sunshine, inside a darker space, etc.
The megabytes mean there is a lot of info in each picture - using Photoshop to crop or play with the picture results in some spectacular shots when I need it.  Recently, I had to take pictures under a large picnic pavilion, without using a flash but with all the bright sunshine outside.   The camera did well, and Photoshop was easily able to get me the detail I needed on the inside shots, balancing out the very bright background.  Not every camera has pictures that have enough detail to pull a good shot out of those details.   The same thing happened at a school assemble - good shots under difficult conditions.
 The only problem pictures I have had are NOT the camera's fault - people moving when I do not have it in sports mode.  Putting it in sports mode does indeed help if things are going to move around on you.  
I am satisfied with the shutter lag - it's pretty fast - and the quality of the camera. 
 I am particularly happy that my 20 year old Pentax lense works with this.   It was the reason I bought the camera, in the end - the ability to use the old lenses from my old Pentax film camera,  and even the additional flash (also ancient).  Pentax has made it so you can use them, and even makes an adapter for the really old lenses. This makes upgrading to other lenses so much easier, as there are a lot of older lenses around.  And I feel better about not just throwing out perfectly good stuff.