ID: B001DCYRH6-R2CS648GKM1WEN-A1R5ZCXNK0L5XT
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: HOOVER-COMPANY-Commercial-Portapower-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1R5ZCXNK0L5XT
ReviewerName: PithyTag
Date: December 17, 2009
Helpful: 25 of 25
Rating: 5.0
Title: Totally Perfect for Apartments, At An Awesome Price: Skip the More expensive ones!
Content:
For starters, consider that high-quality consumer vacs are running $200-$300, and substantially more if you go with a Dyson or something. We seriously considered a Dyson canister, and I'm very, very happy that we skipped it. It not only would have been a waste of money, it would have been less convenient. 
We have a triplex (3-story) apartment in New York. All hardwood floors, and lots of stairs. This thing is absolutely, totally perfect for it. The suction is huge, even after weeks of use in an apartment full of dog hair. It's designed so effectively that all the hair gets sucked deep into the bag, and doesn't block the airflow. The bag is a long-lasting cloth bag that's very easy to remove and empty, and there is no additional cost for consumables. However, if you'd prefer a paper bag that you don't need to empty, you can use those instead. Either way, it works great. It also works great on our area rugs, because the suction is very good. 
It's very lightweight, and comes with both carry-handle and shoulder-strap. So you can range all over the apartment, over and around things, up and down the stairs, carrying it comfortably all the way. My wife is a little smaller than I, and also finds it very light and great to use. 
The long, super-strong metal tube, with rotating head, works its way really conveniently underneath and around the table, chairs, and other furniture. It comes with great attachments for baseboards and other needs. The metal tube has a secure locking mechanism, so it's both easier to disassemble than a plastic one that often gets stuck, and easy to reassemble and snap together. It's going to last forever. The flexible hose is made of really strong material, with a rigid, springy coil inside. It doesn't crimp, fold, bunch or otherwise cause problems. It also shrinks nicely when you're not putting any tension on it. Which makes it very convenient to store: it's super-compact to start with, and you can quickly pop the hose & tube off the main body of it, so you can store them wherever they fit best. Incidentally, Hoover also includes a very rugged strap to snap the cord in place when you're not using it. The power cord, by the way, is just incredibly long, so I can do a whole floor of the apartment, and get 2/3 of the way down the stairs, before I need to unplug and move the connection. It's the longest I've ever had, even on a full-size upright.
We've had it for a month now, and use it often, and I have yet to find a single flaw with it. I suppose they could round the edges a bit more, so that when I'm dancing around the apartment with it slung over my shoulder, I don't even notice them. But that's about it. Some reviewers suggest they integrate the attachment storage into the body of the vac. But that would dramatically increase weight and size, so it would be stupid. They could give you a little holder for them, but then they'd have to charge you more, and you probably have a bag or drawer or whatever for them already.  If you want, you can buy the $20 "PortaPack" carry bag, which includes a spiffier shoulder strap, and a little mesh bag for the attachments. But if you don't need it, they've saved you the $20. 
Unless you have deep-pile carpets, or a dog/cat that constantly sheds fine hair (and so you need a vac with a powered head), this is a really phenomenal performer, and an amazing value, which is much more maneuverable than an upright could over be.