ID: B001EU9UTM-RE8IGWL0T4QJ6-AZOT87BY8QT82
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Mr-Coffee-ECMP50-Espresso-Cappuccino
ReviewerID: AZOT87BY8QT82
ReviewerName: K. Krueger
Date: January 8, 2009
Helpful: 39 of 39
Rating: 5.0
Title: Mr. Coffee really did their homework on this one
Content:
I received this for Christmas from my loving wife who noticed a slight cloud over my weekends since my espresso maker went out several months ago.  I had the Mr. Coffee model previous to this one.  It served me well for over a year with regular use before I learned the hard way about not overpacking the grounds.
After taking this one around the block a few times I have to say I'm extremely impressed with the design improvements they've made.  Overall, this machine is a tremendous value for under $100 (mine was $75 on sale).  You would really have to be a coffee snob (and have a lot of disposable income) not to love what you get for the money (I'm a poor coffee snob.)
To sing this machine's praises, I'll highlight the improvments they've made:
1) You no longer have to remove the water container to fill it up.  It's an awkward shape to try to fill from my refrigerator.  So I just use my frothing pitcher and pour directly into it.  This also chills the pitcher - which is good for the frothing I'll do soon.
2) I LOVE the top tray.  I store my espresso cup, tamper (from the old machine - the new one is the only downgrade I've noticed), brew basket, and espresso pitchers on it.  Did I mention I love the tray?  It's a great design perk.
3) It still heats up quickly.  A little faster than before for frothing.
4) They upgraded the design of the filters.  Smaller holes that all converge into one hole on the bottom.  Note:  Don't put these or the brew basket in the dishwasher - you'll tarnish them.
5) The bottom of the brew basket is really cool, the single hole from the filter drips onto a silicone (I'm assuming) cone in the basket which appears to guarantee an even drip between two cups of espresso.  This only matters if you're pulling separate shots.  It may be overdesigned, but I think it's cool.
6) There's more clearance under the brew basket!  You couldn't fit a coffee mug under there before (which is why I have the two espresso pitchers).  One (or two) fewer thing to clean!
7) The drip tray has two larger holes in the middle.  When your espresso is done (and the machine is off) you can take out the brew basket (it's bad for the valve to keep it there) and set it on the holes to drip and cool off before cleaning.  It's a brilliant improvement.  Also, the drip tray has a spout on it to make it easy to pour out.
8) The frothing wand swings!  Very cool.
Here are my tips (echoing other reviews).  
-Read the directions first!  It'll last longer if you do.  
-Make sure you use the correct roast and ground size and don't overpack.
-Play with the brewer until you figure out how long you want to brew (I count to ten).  
-Ditch the single filter.  You'll never use it.
-Get some demitasse cups.
-Get a frothing pitcher and use 1% milk.  
-Ditch the rubber tip on the frothing wand.  It's useless unless you want to easily grow bacteria.  
-After frothing, blow a little steam out the wand so no milk dries and clogs it.  Wipe the wand with a damp towel shortly after steaming (it's easier to clean when it's hot).
That's about it, folks.  You get a lot of bang for your buck with this one.  Even if it only lasted a year, I'd buy another one to replace it and I'd still save money over the more expensive models.
Enjoy!
UPDATE AFTER ONE YEAR:  I use it off and on and it's still working well.  The frothing works as well as it did day one.  The espresso function works, but I made the mistake of pregrinding some beans at the grocery store with the "Espresso" setting.  The machine struggled to force water through even with minimal packing (Next time I'll try the next largest size).  It also seems like the seal isn't as tight as a year ago.  That said, it still pulls a decent shot.  For the money, I'm still pleased.