ID: B001F7AHXW-R2NR5RT0DN4DKH-A1AJYDP4DQRXIL
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-classic-Silver-Generation-Previous
ReviewerID: A1AJYDP4DQRXIL
ReviewerName: Judge J Drhedd
Date: September 11, 2008
Helpful: 34 of 38
Rating: 4.0
Title: Still bought it!
Content:
This is my review after buying this fresh incarnation. 
I have the fifth generation iPod. Did not acquire the 6th gen because I feel that that update last year was not much of an upgrade. Now, this offers no major improvement as well, but I still bought it for the following reasons:
1) At 120 GB and 249 USD, it still offers a good USD over gigabyte value. Good as an extra external harddisk for my other hobby: photography. 2) Im planning to buy the new in-ear iPod earphone with controls that might not be backward compatible with my 5th gen. Although I wasnt able to test this in-canal two-drivered, tweetered earphone (not in the stores yet), Im betting that Apple tweaked and appropriately consulted with expert sound engineers. Im still a believer in Apple's meticulousness in sound. I wont forget that iPod offered best mp3 sound (you would think it's coming from an audio-discman) in its first launch. The one with controls is in demo, control 'pad' is very thin and convenient, sounds about the same,  
3) the battery of my 5th gen is now performing to just about 60% of its original capacity
4) I like the new black color, it's not black black, but approaching charcoal. A rugged color to me that doesnt 'get dirty' easily. 
5) Ive been wanting the song search function since my library is now 3000+. (why didnt Apple apply a firmware for this for the 5th gen?) 
6) Substantial battery improvement as well. 
7) There's a considerable reduction in size. With silicon case added, it's equal to my 5th gen's size.
8) Less lags  compared to my 5th gen (although fed a library of 3000+ songs plus several movies and video podcasts)
Now, my objections:
1) Why didn't they include the shake/shuffle function. Is it because it's hard-drive based? Do people really shakesohard to do that big damage on the hard-drive?
2) There's a general impression that this iPod classic is being `left out'," for example just with upgrades that's only firmware-based. The word "classic" in itself already connotes "old," and other negative things. I hope Apple doesnt put this previous flagship down so much. In forums, there's already much comment on how "this update is not included in the classic..." are all these intentional so the iPod Touch would increase its sales? No gratitude at all to this iconic model which brings so much memory. No gratitude when it comes to business strategy? Just for me, I wont consider iPod Touch until its flash-based memory breaks 60 GB at least and price gets below 300 USD. With all the video podcasts available, 32 GB (at 400 USD at that!) is just not enough.