ID: B001FA1NZU-R220EQ2Y9TAE39-A2PZJYHC2342W
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-touch-Generation-Previous-Model
ReviewerID: A2PZJYHC2342W
ReviewerName: Nikon131 "Nikon131"
Date: March 31, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Love it.
Content:
I have to say, this is my first ipod since my 1st generation white firewire and the ipod experience has vastly improved. I am a Mac user and have been for 15 years or so, so the integration with all of my applications such as email, calendar, contacts is very useful. As well as movies and photos always with me is very handy.
===
wifi:
We have a 10/2 fios connection but the speed of my internet hasn't made browsing any faster. Safari is abit slow on the touch, it's not horrible 8-10 seconds for sites like cnn for example. I can go outside of my house and have access to email. There are great apps out there that help you connect and see to open wifi spots.
===
email:
I have my gmail, yahoo mail, hotmail, work email, all on here. (I have multiple accounts for a couple of these services) I don't have to login to all of my online accounts to access them. Instead I have a single application to view all of my email, reply, forward and even see attachments. (Large attachments such as pdf's take longer to download and view.)
===
calendar, contacts, photos:
synced with my mac so anything I enter in either the ipod or computer gets synced so I have everything always updated and current. The weather app is nice also. (there are alot of nice free ones besides the apple weather app.)
===
movies and music:
I use visualhub to convert avi's to an itunes format and sync to the ipod. The screen is nice and clear for viewing and if you have a higher end pair of headphones the ipod sends great sound to them. I have usually about 4-5 movies on there all the time. Music is nice to have a couple of albums on here, again sound is great. 
===
app store:
ok now this is addictive, there are thousands of app out there, alot of them free. Useful stuff like news, weather, productivity like todo apps. Financial calculators etc. There is no way to get a refund on apps so be sure to read the reviews and look at screenshots. Alot of paid apps have free "lite" versions available so try these out before you purchase a full version. I have a couple of games, todo, facebook, twitter, password manager.
===
my digital hub:
My workflow has changed since using my ipod. Sure it's marketed as a entertainment tool, but I have used it more to be productive than anything. Having access to my email, a todo app (Things), a password manager (mSecure), weather (Weather Channel), News (AP News, Amazon and Bank of America access, all make this a great PDA. THis is a great ipod. Don't hesitate.