ID: B00138MVBY-R3NCTKP7UKSLYM-AYOE1CFFZMR14
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Sony-DSLRA300K-Digital-SteadyShot-Stabilization
ReviewerID: AYOE1CFFZMR14
ReviewerName: Ticktock "Ticktock"
Date: November 11, 2008
Helpful: 51 of 56
Rating: 2.0
Title: Started off pleased. I am not so pleased now.
Content:
I purchased the Sony A300 5 months ago through J&R Music World. The camera came to me quickly and with no apparent problems. Since then I have used the camera several times to take photos of my grandchildren and also some landscapes.  I always mount the camera on a sturdy tripod. When it is not being used, it is stored in a padded camera case. The last time I turned on my camera the LCD showed a white screen with just a couple of lines running through it.  I did not bang it, drop it or otherwise abuse it. The camera comes with a 1 year warranty. Since I purchased a Sony product I did not expect to have a problem with them honoring my warranty.  They gave me instructions to send it to Precision Camera Repair. After about a week I checked Precision's online repair status and I had a message saying that repairs were delayed because they were waiting for payment. When I called they told me that the camera showed some small scratches on it's base so the camera was obviously abused and therefore they would have to charge me $254 to repair it! I went ballistic. Precision's customer service person told me that maybe they could reduce the repair cost and immediately reduced the charge to $175.  Now you may say that my argument should not be with Sony. It should be with Precision Camera. However when I called Sony Customer Relations they refused to intercede and told me I was out of luck.  My argument is with Sony because they are using an obviously unscrupulous repair service.  How do I know they are unscrupulous? Because I have since found out that what they did to me, they have also done to other people.  There are many complaints about them at these websites: [...]
[...] Sony's Customer Relations Department turned a deaf ear to my complaint. I had no choice but to pay for a repair that should have been covered by the warranty.  
I am very disappointed with the durability of this camera and the way Sony handled my problem.