ID: B001CDLUXA-R28D3AUPM9VW55-A142CJN2IB9C9Q
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Player-Built-Speaker-Silver
ReviewerID: A142CJN2IB9C9Q
ReviewerName: D. Wright
Date: June 2, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: love it
Content:
I've had this player for several months now and I love it! It goes with me everywhere. I bought it to replace my old Zen Vision M and I'm not disappointed.
It a great size and weight and it's also pretty. Battery life is not bad. I've found the external speaker to be far more useful than I had ever imagined it would be. The overall device sound quality is Excellent. the head phones are nice even though I keep losing the little silicone tips/buds. the player should have come with a 100 pack of replacement buds for people like me. I don't use the crystalizer or the wifi...although I'm sure they have their uses, I find them both unnecessary and I'd be just as happy without either. The Card slot is a nice thought but I haven't found it to add as much joy and usefulness to the player as I had hoped. It's best to use this slot for picture transfers/storage. I love that it uses a regular usb cable to connect to the computer so I don't have to buy some "special" cable that will only work with this device. I am also delighted to be able to use it with my Audible books which is it's main occupation in my world (love my books).Video is terrific and it works great with Amazon video downloads. In a perfect world, I'm sure the buttons would be a bit larger but I'm not really annoyed with them the way they are. The software and user interface is very much like my Vision: M so I'm used to its quirks whatever they are, if they even exist. There is always room for improvement with every product, and everyone is an authority on how to design something to make it better. I suppose my main complaint would be the long time it takes to convert certain types of video and also that there is a little software quirk that makes  the "what do you want to do?" window pop up on the computer while I'm charging. All in all...It does what I bought it to do and it does all those things quite well.
It's a great little player.