ID: B001FSKDWG-R2QJWLECJ04DY2-A26BM4G76GAPCM
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Panasonic-DMC-G1-Digital-3-5-5-6-Black
ReviewerID: A26BM4G76GAPCM
ReviewerName: S. Paci "Shutterbug"
Date: June 15, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 10
Rating: 4.0
Title: Small, Light, Fun to Use -- But not a home run
Content:
I am a fairly serious amateur photographer who has in recent years mostly used some of the better digital compacts selling in the $500-600 range. I purchased the Lumix G1 and both lenses because I wanted to step up in quality and needed a smaller, lighter alternative to a full DSLR kit for travel and wildlife photography.  After working with the camera and lenses for several weeks, I have come to the conclusion that, while I will be keeping it, the camera with its two Panasonic lenses represents a compromise in terms of image quality and is not as much of an upgrade over the better digital compacts as I had hoped. I have not looked into using the camera with some of the other lenses that can be made to work with it using various adapters.
Regarding the 45-200 zoom lens in particular: at full zoom, the images are soft. There is also some flaring and chromatic aberrations that I don't know enough about to explain, except to know that they are there. I have a quality multi-coated UV filter on the lens and am also using the lenshood.
I understand Panasonic has issued some firmware updates for the camera and both lenses which improve lens performance, but the instructions for loading these into the camera look pretty complicated.  I have yet to determine whether the soft focus is due to problems with the lens or the autofocus itself (the manual focus on these lenses seems difficult to use), with my use of the autofocus, with my choice of settings (the camera offers many options which I have not yet fully explored), whether the image stabilization is not giving me as much extra leeway on the shutter speed as I hoped, or whether this is just a problem inherent with most inexpensive zoom lenses. That said, many of the images do sharpen up somewhat in Photoshop to acceptable levels. But I have yet to see an image shot with the telephoto lens zoomed out to 400mm that is truly tack sharp -- even if the shutter speed is over 1,000 of a second. That is a little scary.
If I could give it 3 1/2 stars I would. I am giving it 4 because I assume that most users will not be using the lens as I am -- usually zoomed all the way out, with aperture open all the way, and relying on the image stabilization to photograph birds in available light. I realize I am pushing it to its limit on almost every shot. Still, I hoped to be blown away and I am not. 
UPDATE: Realized in talking so much about the telephoto lens and its shortcomings, I did not really talk much about the camera. Panasonic did get a number of things right with this camera. Noise reduction is much improved over their past efforts. Even at ISOs up to 800 and beyond, noise is not that noticeable. Even when it starts to kick in, it looks very natural, almost like film grain. A pleasant surprise.
Build quality is fairly good with the body and focusing and zoom rings on the lenses having a nice rubberized feel. Controls are intuitive and are well placed. Several things that should be more accessible are buried in the menus, such as the "guide lines," but the "quick menu" button on top of the camera gives you quick access to most of the controls you'll need while shooting.
LCD screen is big and clear though I use it mostly for playback. It has been a while since I've had a camera with an optical viewfinder (this one is electric) and I find I am mostly using that. This one is extremely bright even in low light, though it can get kind of jerky and grainy.
If Panasonic can improve the autofocus issues (and possibly they have already done so with the firmware updates) then the micro four-thirds system (a model with HD video and some new lenses are due out soon) will be a viable option for serious amateurs who want to avoid the weight and size of a full DSLR system.