ID: B0013FLTNS-R3UEOE0QVC9J4N-AOVOJZZJP7BOC
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB134LL-15-4-inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: AOVOJZZJP7BOC
ReviewerName: Oneironaut
Date: January 25, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Much better than the new MacBook
Content:
This is my first Mac since the Macintosh of the late 90's...  what a difference a decade makes!  I LOVE this computer, but I'm glad I got this model rather than the new one and I'll explain why.
1.  I love the all-silver look of it.  I don't like the black keys of the new ones.  Makes it look too much like an HP or some other kind of PC laptop.  
2.  I don't care for the new keyboards which have individually separated keys.  It just feels odd to type on, and the keys on this model are crisp and always feel brand new.  I love how it looks when the keys light up.
3.  Matte display.  Glass screens really interfere when working with color-intensive programs.  And, as this is a portable, lighting conditions are going to constantly change.  I'd rather have no possibility of glare than have to always angle the whole computer just to get a good view.  
4.  DVI output rather than the new Macbook's specialized monitor connection.  Admittedly I haven't needed to hook my Mac up to anyone else's monitor yet, but if I do, I'd rather have the flexibility of a DVI cable than have to shell out more money for an adapter.
5.  Firewire 400 AND 800.  The new Macbooks don't have the 400 port, which hasn't been much of an issue for me since my video camera has an 800 connector, but it's certainly within the realm of possibility that I might need to use the 400 port at some point.  This is, after all, a notebook for professionals, and I do a lot of video editing on Final Cut Pro.
6.  The trackpad on this one still has a button to use.  The new ones are one single combination of trackpad and button, which sounds neat but sometimes you need the definite separation to avoid accidentally clicking something.  I guess that's why the new trackpads are larger, but still, I prefer the this version of it.  
The new Macbook does make some things easier, such as gaining access to the hard drive, but it doesn't make up for the smarter design of this version.  I got this computer just before they discontinued it and boy am I glad I snagged it!  There are so many neat options to play with and of course it's a big plus to have Windows running on it too.  Just add an external hard drive, and you have a computer that should easily replace any you might already have for daily home and/or professional use.  Well worth the money.