ID: B0017J7T7A-R37LR6ZSNJJNKT-AAG48O5309PLA
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB471LL-15-4-Inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: AAG48O5309PLA
ReviewerName: JJ Casas "jcasasphotography.com"
Date: December 1, 2008
Helpful: 14 of 14
Rating: 5.0
Title: Macbook Pro/Leopard convert
Content:
Finally took the bite and bought my first Apple computer. I'm a photographer and needed a new laptop since my old Gateway one was slowing down.. and since I've been eyeing an Apple since then, I finally purchased one after seeing the new one [I'm writing the review using it right now.]
First things first: it just works. No clutter, no unnecessary backgrounds running in the background, simple and definitely sleek. I'm still getting use to the file management since it is different but otherwise, a lot of the programs I've used on Windows are available on Mac.
:Design:
It's really light for a 15" laptop! And definitely thin too.. although it's not a cutting edge Macbook Air thin, it's definitely thin enough for easier transport. The all aluminum design is stunning. It's solid and feels sturdy. The keyboard is just right with its chiclet style keys and has enough tactile feedback.. not too loud either.
:Screen:
It's glossy and yes there is glare. Since I do photography, it's probably not the best screen to edit on but the colors and text and all is really good. It's a bright screen and makes pictures just look good.. too good as a matter of fact [opinion shared with another photography Joe McNally].
:Trackpad:
It's weird at first but it's really like a regular trackpad.. you place your hand as if on old trackpad and you'll naturally figure it out. Nothing really different but the space of the trackpad is really generous and I'm sure other manufacturers will follow suit.
:Performance:
I've yet to get bogged down after running Photoshop CS4, Lightroom, iTunes, and Firefox at the same time. So I have no issues just yet and will see later on if I'll need to upgrade to 4gb since I have the standard lower end version of the Macbook Pro.
Overall, I'm glad I made the purchase and i'm sure this will last me quite a bit since I've had my Gateway [tablet] for over 2 years.