ID: B001CPP58E-R6ZDZICAKTHWC-A2V9DTXTQ5YIMK
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-DCH4590ER-500-Watt-Ceramic-Control
ReviewerID: A2V9DTXTQ5YIMK
ReviewerName: A. Hudson "papillon_lover"
Date: January 30, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Small but powerful for my living room
Content:
I bought this heater Jan 2009 and I am using it again this winter. I bought this one to place in the living room. I keep it placed in front of the fireplace which is sealed off and no longer in use. I was skeptical that such a small unit could produce such warm heat but it does. 
The thermostat for my house is in the living room where the unit is placed. If I run this unit for a few hours my thermostat does not kick on and off which is nice. I know I am using energy elsewhere but being able to have direct heat and constant is a nice feature. I like the fact that you can oscillate the fan on this unit. That comes in handy when I am trying to heat the area of the living room itself. I was a bit fearful of using this heater since I have pets close to the ground but this unit will shut off if you even touch it. I feared them knocking it over. Even if I move it slightly it has the auto shut off. The remote comes in handy too when I am sitting on the sofa and feel too lazy and comfortable. I can just change the temperature settings or turn the unit off with the remote. I really like the fact that it does not take up much room as I do not have a lot of room to spare. I have kept it out year round but only use it in the winter. It is so small that I do not need to store it. Small, but yet very powerful. My only complaint would be the fan can be a bit noisy. I have it placed in the vicinity of the TV so when trying to watch TV I have to turn the volume up (on TV) or the sound is drowned out.  I choose to place it in the living room so I guess that is my own doing. Using this for the second winter now I have no complaints. It functions great and I hope to get a few more winters out of it.