ID: B001D8S9E2-R1ENDG3FHZ81P-A1YCW1JKPHJ9CR
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB466LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1YCW1JKPHJ9CR
ReviewerName: Sheldon Hyacinth Leriche "Leriche loves his M...
Date: June 1, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: MacBook, Better Than expected
Content:
After having a dell xps m1530, and then switching to the mac book, the most noticeable difference is the fact that i leave my home, with only the MacBook, no wires, no charger, no chords no  cables not even my wireless mouse. I  just slide it in a very small umbro bag. The size and weight plus the battery life, makes it so convenient to carry to basically anywhere. I get 4 - 5 hrs straight from my macbook, more than enough time to be away from an area with an electrical outlet.
 
The track pad, is not only for use, but to play. The multi-functionality of the track pad, makes work look like play. Zooming, scrolling, switching between windows or applications, rotating pictures to name a few, all done by sliding your finger or a combination of fingers on the track pad. 
The screen/display is stunning. We took for granted the fact that we remain seated around the table watching a movie:  and the table was round. It is only after a while my friend observed that normally we would have to get up to get a good viewing angle, which is straight in front of the screen. The display adjusts to the amount of lighting  in the area, excellent idea.
You use the keyboard effectively without accidentally touching the track pad. The back light is one very important feature, and should have been standard just like the battery in all laptops. you just need it all the time. The back light also adjusts to that amount of lighting in the area.
The macbook gets warm, and not hot, which is excellent.
The operating system is excellent, and graphically based. I don't need to be a genius to have an idea what that picture is saying. Most of the technical and complicated information has been removed or hidden rather, so all i see are icons. To install or uninstall and item simply drag the icon in the appropriate location.
The Negatives i have noticed : the "two" USB ports it has, are placed ridiculously close to each other, making it near impossible to have to things connected at the same time (may be it was deliberate, to get us to purchase the other little gadgets). I only supports stereo (one output) straight off the book (u need a gadget).  I am still learning the operating system and thus i am seeing there isn't much that can be done to customize the overall look of the system , apart from changing the background and colors of the names under the icons. May be there is more that i need to learn (and mind you, i will). 
There is a lot more i can say but will end here. what i needed out of a portable device, was battery life, durability (it is made of aluminum you know), and simplicity, while fun, but does not compromise on power and versatility. I did not even talk about the dash board, which as the name would suggest, provides quick easy access to many things on your system. 
If you have the money get a mac, its only a few hundreds more, and did i mention that you can run windows on there, so you can run two operating systems for a few hundreds more.