ID: B001MS6NRS-R2IMH7CSUX6D66-A2S4I08RQ5DHRK
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VGN-CS260J-14-1-Inch-Processor-Blu-ray
ReviewerID: A2S4I08RQ5DHRK
ReviewerName: Martha Hughes
Date: July 31, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 6
Rating: 1.0
Title: DON'T BUY THIS COMPUTER
Content:
I don't have the time to tell you all the things I've experienced with Sony , , , and this notebook.  It would take me half a day.  I ordered it directly from Sony.  I received a small screen and the keys are so close together I can't type on it well at all.  Two things I told the salesperson was that I wanted a regular sized keyboard and the best sound card.  I didn't get either  one.  In fact the volume is so slow, you can barely hear it.  That's a good reason not to buy one unless you hold it up to your ear to hear it
I had to wait two weeks to receive it and when I got it, I didn't open right away.  They said that since it was a few days after the return date, they would do nothing.  They finally set up a repairman to come out because it was doing so many things, like the screen will just roll so that you can't read it.  it wouldn't defrag.  It would go on all night and when I'd go back to it the next morning.  Still running, trying to defrag,  It was , , , I could go on and on with the problems I've had.  It still has multiple issues with it.  They told me they would send a repairman out to check it out and that I would get a call within 72 hours.  I waited for the call, never came.  I called them back and they said it had been cancelled.  Couldn't give me a reason, the rep said he didn't know.  They could have at least called me and told me so I didn't hang around the house for three days.  I hate it.
The last laptop I had was an HP, I never called their support one times in the three years I had it.
If you want a computer you can sit down, surf the net and enjoy your experience, do not buy this one!
The only good thing is that it is pretty, but it's not worth it. I wanted more than that just pretty.