ID: B001A5OWWG-R3DZM1XD846QBE-A34FOFEPUU8K9A
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Mechanical-Stabilization-12-60mm-FL-50R
ReviewerID: A34FOFEPUU8K9A
ReviewerName: T. Haines "Shutter Bug"
Date: April 7, 2008
Helpful: 47 of 50
Rating: 4.0
Title: Underrated, yet outstanding!
Content:
I upgraded to the E3 from my e500.  Some of the things that enticed me were the additional focus points, and articulated screen.  Everything else about the camera was just added niceness. 
The camera is pretty great.  It's an obvious step up from the e500 in terms of quality, and performance.  Images look beautiful, focus is a lot faster and more accurate.  The tilting screen and live view are things that I wonder how I ever lived without....a HUGE boost to my shooting and the types of shots I can get.
I think Olympus is underrated in the DSLR business.  Because it uses a 4/3 sensor people talk a lot of bad trash about the system.  But in real-world shooting, the E3 really stands tall.  And I say this as someone who also shoots with a Nikon D300.  Another great thing about the Olympus system is the availability of Olympus lenses.   And the lens is what it's all about.  Olympus lenses are second to none.  I actually find that the Olympus lens lineup makes me frustrated about Nikon's comparably dinky lineup--and Nikon has A TON of lenses, but none that can match the quality/speed of Olympus lenses.  Good luck finding an f2.8 telephoto lens of the same price or quality as Olympus' 50-200.  Olympus beats Nikon in terms of lens quality, easily.
Having said that, the things I don't like about the E3 are its low-light performance (the E3 is better than the e500 or e510 in low-light shooting but it still falls behind the competition) and its tendency to clip highlights.  In low-light situations the E3 tends to produce noisy shots at higher ISOs or during long exposures--considerably noisier than many other cameras (but I wouldn't say they're unusable).  Highlight clipping speaks for itself....overall the dynamic range of the E3 isn't as good as some cameras, but it's on par with others.  Depends on the camera you compare it to.  Those are the only two negatives I can think of.  In terms of metering, it's very good, in fact I prefer how it meters to how the D300 meters (though the D300 doesn't clip highlights like the E3 does) because the tones are closer to the mood I want to get.  More moody,  tones whereas the D300 is a little too LOUD in its tones.  Some of you may dig loud tones.  Your mileage my vary.
All around this camera is as good as my D300, and in many ways its better.  In just those two areas (low-light, and highlight reproduction/dynamic range) its a little disappointing.  But, for whatever it's worth, I do all of my "serious" or "important" shooting with my E3, not my D300.  My E3 lenses are better, the articulated screen of the E3 is a life-saver, I like how it meters better...it's just a really great camera that I love shooting with.
The E3 is an excellent camera, and easily on par with anything that Canon offers--and even better than a lot of what Canon offers.  And its on par or better than everything Nikon offers, with the exception of the D300 (in my opinion).  Nikons D300 is ever so VERY SLIGHTLY superior in some ways but then you don't get the same lens quality with Nikon, and that's the deal maker or deal breaker for me...lenses.  If I could only keep one camera, I'd keep the E3...in a heartbeat.  Get this camera!