ID: B001BFFVO8-RBLPPJU3CAXZQ-A2ER327BNABIWC
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dirt-Devil-082750-Bagless-Canister
ReviewerID: A2ER327BNABIWC
ReviewerName: K. B. Sheneman "Reluctant Consumer"
Date: April 1, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 2.0
Title: inexpensive but you get what you pay for
Content:
I purchased this vacuum for it's relatively reasonable price and features.  I wish that I had followed my intuition; that you do indeed get what you pay for. This vacuum has very few pros, so I will address them first.  I have some lighter wieght area rugs where the variable suction is a great feature.  It has pretty good suction and does well on bare floors. The brush attachment has a cool swivel head that allows you to manuever it for varying positions.  That pretty much sums up the pros.
Right out of the box, a plastic cord retainer was broken.  It was meant to stabilize the cord that you MUST disconnect before emtying the dust collecter. Just poor design, in my estimation.  A few weeks later the female retainer for that connection snapped making it a challenge to reconnect. The nozzle hose is quite stiff, but worse is the swivel mechanisms to manuever the powerhead.  The powerhead is pretty poorly designed and is not good on carpet which is what it is really designed for.  It hangs up pushing forward, regardless of how high you set it.  Be forewarnd that ANY bagless system will require you to vacuum clean the hepa filter after EACH use.  If you only have one vacuum that can be tricky.  Get two filters so you can interchange them.  IT is ALWAYS messy! I would recommend highly against bagless vacuums.  As I was attempting to remove the debris from the internal hepa filter, I inadvertantly dropped the containter where the hanldle snapped off quite easily.  This rendered the vacuum totally useless until such time as I was able to epoxy the handle back into position.  I may be able to beef up the weak design by adding some miracle putty.  
Essentially, I would not recommend this, unless you just enjoy challenges.