ID: B001FA1NEQ-R25DJH9FY4EZK3-AOWZ87AGIR2VU
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Black-Generation-Previous-Model
ReviewerID: AOWZ87AGIR2VU
ReviewerName: Paul Bellocq "pmbellocq"
Date: September 7, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Finally converted to MP3 after almost 40 years
Content:
Since I am not a young gadget geek, I will give you my brief musical collecting background. I started out on vinyl in 1971. I gleefully made home made 8-track tapes for my car, then upgraded to casettes for the road. In 1989, a new album was released only on CD. I nearly cried, since my vinyl days were over, but I gave in and bought my first CD. Over the next 20 years, I invested a small fortune in my beloved CD collection. I absolutely refused to download "inferior" MP3 files. The more everyone kept telling me that CD's were a thing of the past, the more I bought them up as if there were no tomorrow. I still say to this day that I can afford the original CD copy and not a cheap MP3 copy. Since I don't want anything to happen to my beloved CD collection, I made my own customized essential favorites for the road, which numbers about 200. If they melt in the hot car in the summer, I just burn another one. If a hurricane threatens again, I just take the box of essentials with me and pray that my originals all survive (I filled up the back of my truck with my originals for one evacuation and swore to never do that again). Now that I have an iPod, I regret being so stubborn. You get the picture!
Well, I bought this new car back in April. To my chagrin, the CD player was defective and I could not bring my beloved music along for seven weeks until the player was replaced. It did have an iPod jack, so out of necessity, I broke down and bought a 16GB Black Nano to cover me in the meantime. The car needed a special cable from the dealer for an extra $30, so I begrudgingly coughed up more money. Well, my new iPod now contains 3151 of my favorite songs and is controlled entirely from the knobs of my 170 watt car stereo and steering wheel controls. The special dealer cable also charges up the iPod while I drive. It never needs to leave the car anymore and the very best of my music collection is at my fingertips. I ripped every single song from my own collection and never downloaded one single song. Yes, this took me a couple of months, but it was worth it. (If it were to get stolen from my car, there are NO song titles because I already know what they are!!...all I need is Artist, Genre, and Essential Volume Number)
As for the special "wow, check this out" features, I have absolutely no use for them. I would venture to say that for what I am using my iPod for, that I could have saved about $50 if a "bare bones" Nano were available without all of the cutesy stuff that I never need, like Playlist and Genius and turning it sideways for a different view. I am not impressed with this kind of stuff. As for earbuds, PLEASE..this is a throwback to the Walkman days of casette players. I also have no need for a charger of any kind, since my car does it all for me. It did "die" on me one night when iTunes hiccuped while loading more files, but was able to be saved when it dropped into low battery mode the next morning.
Since my iPod is now at full capacity, I will probably buy one more 16GB Nano in a different color. Theoretically, I would never run out of space for my needs. Taking along every single song that I own is also not advisable. Let's face it. I am sure that I am not the only one who rapidly skips over Trampled Underfoot when playing anything by Led Zeppelin. Leave all of the bad songs off from your iPod and just load it up with the good ones!