ID: B001CB0RSG-R116SCAA8VHXRM-A5IRTNW4I7LYU
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Player-Wireless-Built-Speaker
ReviewerID: A5IRTNW4I7LYU
ReviewerName: Lynn Hayes "Lynn"
Date: October 10, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Far superior to the Ipod
Content:
This is my second Creative Zen and the third in our family.  I owned the Zen Sleek and my husband owned the Zen Photo.
I love this device.  I find it aesthetically beautiful, with the sleek black casing and brilliant color images.  I am a big  fan of the Rhapsody to Go music service which you cannot get on an Ipod, and that is enough to kill the Ipod for me.  With Rhapsody to Go you pay $15/month and receive unlimited downloads of virtually every type of music you could ever want. 
The battery life is superb - I go days without a recharge even when I listen all of the time.  
The lack of a really good instruction manual can be a problem, but it's fairly intuitive once you get a feel for how the information is organized.  The biggest defect in the Zen for me is the volume level of the built-in speaker, which is not really loud enough to hear without earphones which really defeats the purpose of having the speaker.  
The Creative Centrale software that comes with the Zen is adequate, and if you don't like it you can use Windows Media on a PC to sync your sound files.  I have read a lot of bad reviews of the Centrale software but I actually like it.  I use Replay AV to record internet radio shows and the automatic sync is a great feature.  It's easy in Centrale to label the sound files so that they are easy to find on the zen.
The video player is really excellent and I have had no problems playing videos.  There is a converter that easily converts videos to the format that the Zen requires.  
I also gave three stars for the features because there are several that are missing for me.  I would like to be able to scroll through the albums and easily see who the artist is.  That information is three clicks deep which takes more time than I would like. 
There is a built-in wireless LAN which will pick up some podcasts which is a cool idea but I doubt anyone would really use it.  I do use the free Zencast software which automatically downloads all of my podcast subscriptions, including videos, and seamlessly syncs them to the Zen. 
You can create slideshows of selected photos to play which I think is a nice feature though I rarely use it.  There is a built-in microphone so that you can make sound recordings, and you can sync Outlook to the Zen although that is not a feature I've tried.
All in all, this Zen is a great device and I am very satisfied with the quality and performance.