ID: B001I902HS-R19S15XJ8QDDU-A2WLNSZ9U0T1S3
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Panasonic-MC-CG885-OptiFlow-Lightweight-Canister
ReviewerID: A2WLNSZ9U0T1S3
ReviewerName: Tarun Chachra "Tarun Chachra"
Date: January 5, 2009
Helpful: 10 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent Vacuum Cleaner - 1st Time Canister Users
Content:
Hello All.
A bit of background....
We are a large family with 3 kids...two of them 6 and one 12.  
There are lots of opportunities to vacuum our carpets, hard wood floors, and our ceramic tiles in the kitchen....  Vacuuming is easier then sweeping...on tiles and floors.
We have bought various vacuums, all uprights.  The latest addition was the ORECK classic upright...because of its weight and guaranteed suction.
I am no fanatic of 4-5-600 vacuum cleaners..because in the end they all have issues.
The Panasonic vacuum was packaged well and was easily unpacked, setup, and ready to go.
We have used it daily for about 2 weeks now and we vacuum about 2 times a day....(especially when the kids were home for the holiday break)  otherwise it is once a day.  The unit is lightweight and comes with a standard set of accessories for a canister.  A brush, a blade type accessory etc.  It is a bag unit....as the description says.  The cleaning power of this vacuum is notable.  As I said...we have been through a lot of up right vacuum's and thus my comparison may be on the weak side...but I am quite positive that this thing out sucks a Oreck classic (excuse the pun).
The unit sets up very easily.  The hoses can be detached at two locations....one towards the bottom using your foot so that you get an extended cleaning hose...and one right at the handle for the shortened version....  The power switch is at the handle and has 3 positions (Carpet, Floor, and OFF)....very convenient to have the switch easily available to your thumb to switch modes.  The motorized brush has a floor, low pile, and high pile setting which is easily changed by tapping your foot on the button....there is a display window that shows the setting....  The light works as intended.
The best part, for me, was the ability to be on the carpet one moment..using my foot to detach the the motorized brush and move to the floor...change the setting to floor...and then quickly move back to the carpet..  VERY easy.
The filtration seems plentiful and thus if you have dust allergies or other allergens floating around...this will definitely help a bit.
I have read that Panasonic makes all of the Kenmore canister vac's also...that is proof positive that this is an excellent product.  I cannot compare its pricing as I have not shopped for a canister vac...however I can tell you that my days of purchasing OTC (over the counter) Uprights are over...I have had it with replacing vac's every year/two.  This one is a keeper and we will be buying a second unit as a gift very soon.
Pros:
Light Weight
Wind up Cord
Filtration
Ease of Use
Build Quality
Cons:
N/A
Excellent item.....
Update 1-12-09
WE have donated all of our old vacuum's to the salvation army and decided that we will make this unit our main household unit.  It is doing a great job of cleaning and has not lost any suction power thus far.  The bag is half full.  It is a great unit.
Update 03-19-09
The vacuum continues to run flawlessly.  We were finally able to order replacement bags and could not be happier with the performance of this unit.