ID: B001GCQ3KM-R6LO10CMK5LBN-A7N1K1MJSDUNH
Category: MP3Players
Product: SanDisk-Sansa-Video-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A7N1K1MJSDUNH
ReviewerName: Money "Kevin"
Date: November 20, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Its an MP3 player, Not a micro computer
Content:
The good:
Light weight, easy to upload music, Battery lasts all day (12-16 hours-ish), Charges 100% in about 3 hours from my laptop. Expandable memory with micro SD chips.Its not an ipod and you don't need itunes. Has a built in FM player that picks up radio stations pretty well.
The bad:
Sometimes it locks up when trying to read the micro SD chip. I was a little upset when i took it to the gym with me the first day I had it. turned it on and the boot up screen gets stuck. wouldn't even turn off. After 3 miles of no music i later found that it was the 8 gig micro SD card causing the lock-ups. removed the card, re-inserted it and it booted up fine. Its done it to me 2 or 3 more times since. re-seating the SD card has fixed it everytime. 
The built in EQ is not very good. Any changes in EQ setting reduces the overall gain. (which is not an adjustable EQ setting) 
Also it doesn't read mpegs.I haven't tried any other movie formats, but my music videos aren't supported. I didn't buy it for the video features,I got it for the gym, so not an issue for me, but could be for someone else.
Other thoughts:
Headphone jack is on the bottom. I'd rather it be on the top, but thats more of a preference than a con i suppose. The coolest thing about it is its 1/3 the price of an ipod, and potentially holds more music/video due to being able to hold expandable micro SD chips. Another feature i really like is i can play just a folder, or just the internal memory, or just the external (micro SD card) memory, or play all and shuffle through the whole thing. Theres no lag at all when I have it shuffling on play all and it jumps to songs on the SD chip and the internal memory of the player. 
Overall i'm pretty happy with it. $70 for 16 gigs and a built in FM radio (8gig Fuse + 8 Gig micro SD chip). How much is an ipod shuffle again?...