ID: B001ET5U92-R25RJ48UIBYFU4-A3MJ50J554V0MS
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D90-12-3MP-Digital-Body
ReviewerID: A3MJ50J554V0MS
ReviewerName: David Delisio
Date: November 19, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 7
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great Buy For the Price
Content:
First off I want to say that I have used this camera for a year now. I am a semi pro, which means I earn a little on the side with photography. I also upgraded from a D50 to this camera. I originally wanted to upgrade to the D300 but for the price and what I use it for I decided to go with the D90. Almost the same sensor and I really didn't need the tank build of the 300. The weather proofing would have been nice though.
So far I have been very pleased with my choice. The low light capability up to 3200 iso is fantastic. 6400 is pushing it though. It focuses quickly in lowlight. The body fits comfortably in my hand without it feeling too small like the D40/60/5000. It may feel a bit small if you have large hands though. The battery life compared to my D50 is fantastic. The battery, however, is a bit slower to get out if I need to change quickly. You actually have to pull it out instead of it sliding out practically on it's own. The display in the back is awesome. It may actually be too bright though. I have done alot of Fight promo shots on black backrounds where it's hard to use the histogram to see if your lighting is right. On the display they looked good. Once downloaded I had to boost the exposure by as much as 1 stop. I really can't review the jpg setting as I always shoot in RAW. As far as RAW goes, I read a post on here where someone complained that all his software didn't support the new raw format. No need to buy new software, just download a small file from the Nikon website that allows compatibility with most software. The adobe site has it also. I LOVE the "My Menu" feature.
As far as the video goes. If you are buying this camera for videoing, don't. It's a nice little gimmick and can be convienient to use in some instances, but it's not a video camera. If you want to video, buy a video camera.
I have had a few problems with this camera. The most annoying is when it just stops working because it thinks no lens is attached. I have really only had this problem with my Tamron lenses and can't remember it happening with the Nikons. It was easily fixed by unseating then reseating the lens. I have also lost autofocus with the Tamrons and it was fixed in the same way. When you are actually working with a client this can be both embarassing and annoying. This is the biggest reason I gave this camera only 4 stars.
Bottom line is this is a fantastic camera for both beginners and advanced photographers. [...]