ID: B001QCWQNK-R15RSH4Y2XVAPN-AOPJPAIA7VCY4
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB881LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: AOPJPAIA7VCY4
ReviewerName: Sky Blue
Date: April 8, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Still in love after 1.5 years
Content:
A good indication of addiction would be if I am so afraid of product discontinuation that I buy an identical one while available even if my current one is running well. I am almost tempted to do it. This one is destined to be a classic, in my opinion. Like many, I have used all sorts of laptops in the past and this is the only one that does not feel like a laptop -- maybe because of the solid, smooth and sturdy plastic construction, maybe because of the clean white look, maybe because of the wonderful keyboard touch. Just about everything about this product exudes quality. It is so easy to underestimate this laptop because of its simple, benign look, but it runs programs actually faster than all my desktops. No squeaking anywhere after a full year of use and abuse. Quality parts in and out. The magnetic power adapter is a thing of beauty -- without it, I would have destroyed the adapter outlet whenever I dropped it from my bed where I happen to use my laptop extensively. 
I mostly use Windows Vista with this laptop, using the supplied bootcamp software. I see absolutely no degradation in speed or performance. No extra crashes either. When using Vista, the experience is just like any other Windows-running computers I have. This should be a big relief for Windows Vista users. So if you are hesitating purchasing this one just because you do not intend to use Windows, let me tell you this clearly: This thing beats almost all Windows-running computers on the Windows-turf. 
If I make just one suggestion to Apple, it is that the outermost edges of the plastic cover on the keyboard side fall apart over time and perhaps this needs to be addressed. It does not affect the performance but I am concerned dusts may get inside the laptop, apart from aesthetic reasons. But since this product is so wonderful, I am willing to even let go of this issue. It is that good. 
One suggestion to purchasers: To make this product even better, buy a 2G memory and a 250G internal hard disk from any internet vendor. They are so cheap these days. Just make sure you get the correct ones for this model; vendors will be most happy to assist you with that. It is a breeze to install them yourself (there are many sites on the Internet that show you how to do it step by step -- it takes 5 minutes to install both the extra memory and the hard disk, although it takes much much longer to reinstall all your programs). Never buy higher spec model from Apple as you will grossly overpay for the bigger memory and bigger hard disk. Do this at the outset as soon as your purchase this one especially if you use Windows Vista as well with the bootcamp -- you will quickly run out of the hard disk space since you have entirely separate two spaces with two operating systems.