ID: B0012Y88QQ-R3H3E49UN6EMN8-A1X6S5SZVCZ5HH
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A1X6S5SZVCZ5HH
ReviewerName: Kermit
Date: May 25, 2008
Helpful: 9 of 16
Rating: 5.0
Title: Ergonomics
Content:
I mated the Canon EF 24-105mm f/4 L IS USM lens with the Canon XSI body.  Individually they are both incredible components.  The camera has most of the features of more expensive dSLRs and the lens is an "L" lens, possessing incredible optics and quality.  But I'm not sure they work well together.
When I first lifted the camera from the shipping box I was impressed.  The camera felt solid, not like some cheap plastic cameras on the market.  And it was relatively light-weight. 
The lens was built like a tank, solid, bulky at 77mm diameter, and quite heavy.  But when the lens was attached to the camera something strange happened.  It didn't feel right.  The balance was way off.  Since the lens was 50% heavier than the camera, it tended to point downward, like a divining rod, when the camera was suspended by its' strap. But, of course, "heavy" is a relative term.  I had just upgraded  from a compact P&S.  And most quality dSLR lenses tend to be "heavy".  I read about photograpers who label camera and lenses even heavier than mine as "light".  This is just a personal reaction I want to convey.  I had anticipated I would be supporting the weight of the camera almost totally with my right hand, using my left had only for balance. But I find I am also using my left hand to support considerable weight.  
I won't go here into much detail about the specifications.  They'll be discussed in depth by other reviewers. Suffice it to say this is a quality camera with advanced features and "predictable" controls.  
There is one operational issue I think should be addressed, however.  It's almost impossible to frame a shot using the viewfinder without smudging that beautiful 3" LCD monitor with your nose.  There are eyepiece extenders available, but most users are not satisfied with them.  It is said much of the image is blocked with their use.
I have addressed this problem by installing a plastic protector over the LCD monitor.  I suggest you do the same. Now I can rub the protector to my heart's content without fear of scratching the LCD glass.  
One other thing:  Protect your lens with a quality UV filter.  it would be pointless to install a cheap UV filter over a high-quality lens.  I went for the B&H.  
In summary, although I'm not yet comfortable with my combination of camera and lens, I did not let this detract from my grade.  After all, this is a review of   
a camera, and not of a lens or even a combination of the two.  Hopefully my discomfort will pass as I use the camera more frequently.