ID: B001FA1O0E-R24ELU0KD8R48B-A1BMLPBCROVT7S
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-touch-Generation-Previous-Model
ReviewerID: A1BMLPBCROVT7S
ReviewerName: Dexx Jones "unapologetic fan of good tv"
Date: May 20, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: conflicted
Content:
coming from a windows world, i started with a shuffle, then got a nano and then an apple airport extreme and a bunch of airport expresses. ap extreme is the apple router and the expresses are plug-in extensions which expand the wifi and also add an audio port (optical or analog!)so that you can stream your itunes throughout your house. turning each speaker port on or off and even broadcasting through the whole house!
i then found out that an itouch can be programmed (through an app) to act as a remote for the itunes on any computer on the network! the only comparable system i had seen which would give me whole house broadcasting was thousands of dollars. i bought the itouch and sure enough it worked as a remote. i could sit by the pool and select songs, create playlists, volume, etc from a deck chair.
and all of it worked perfectly.
BUT
the itouch has two flaws which do annoy me.
a) the battery life is awful. no other way to say it. i even bought a supplemental battery pack for it, but it sucks the energy right out ofthe pack as well
b) the safari browser is nightmarish. you can expand the text by double-clicking, but more often than not accidentally hit a link. there is no clear way to navigate from page to page. its very awkward and the lack of flash is unbearable.
now those two items are annoying, but the amount of good stuff included and available boggles the mind. it has a bug deterrent app! haha
i recognize that most people use their itouches for video and music and i found both of those to be wonderful experiences. a long drive was made much more bearable by watching an entire season of brothers & sisters.
unfortunately i cannot watch my amazon on demand on there which is annoying to no end. 
games are fun on there. i got caught in lemonaide tycooon for days.
if you are willing to deal with crappy battery life (or like me, mainly want to use the itouch as a smart remote (did i mention that it even displays the album cover while the music plays on the airport express???) then this is a good buy. i heard that the 32gb has screen problems so probably best to stick to the 16GB
in conclusion, the outlandish feature set of the overall apple equipment that i bought caused me to reconsider my long-time windows/pc loyalty. here i was with a bunch of different mac items and they all did so much and i couldnt even browse the net on a windows machine without annoying crashes, that i decided to get a mac pc. my god 12GB of ram but thats a review for a different day. :)