ID: B001FA1NJG-R2N6V9XGZEFKRN-AKQYJ11PJZKQD
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-120-Video-MP3-Player
ReviewerID: AKQYJ11PJZKQD
ReviewerName: C. Broussard
Date: May 18, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: I'm pleased
Content:
I've had my Zune 120 for over a month now, and I have to say I'm quite pleased. I really like the touchpad interface - much more than the IPod click-wheel.  Also, the touchpad works as a regular push-button interface, so I can just hold the bottom part of the pad to go down the list of songs, and click the center to select.  
I'm not super in love with the playlist interface - I haven't found how to remove a single song from the playlist, or to just add a single song.  If I add one song, it goes on to play the rest of the album, or the next song alphabetically, or the next song by the artist, depending on how I navigated to the song in the first place.  It's not been too much of a bother, and I would be surprised if it's anything other than my own ignorance to blame... 
but on that subject, Zune doesn't offer a whole lot in the way of introducing you to how to use it.  It's pretty much "here's where the buttons are, here's how to sync, figure the rest out."  The internet helps, but I would have appreciated more straight-up introduction to the interface.  It was a while before I realized you could hold the center button to open up addition options (playlist, favorite, etc).  
I've been pretty negative in this review so far, but I don't want to create the wrong impression: I really like my Zune.  I carry it all over.  The sound quality is great, and the video quality surprised me how great it was. I've watched entire movies on it.  Recharging times are as quick as they say they are - I've only had to intentionally charge it once (after several hours of video).  20-30 minutes a day charging in the car while I drive makes up for all my other use, which sometimes includes playing it all night while I sleep.  
For me, also, the wireless syncing is a huge benefit.  To be able to sync up the new album I just downloaded without bothering with sync cables... it's nice.  Lastly, Zune also comes with an FM receiver, so I can get radio, too.  It's nice to have the option.  
Oh, and I've invested a couple bucks to buy better earphones (my small earholes never fit the regular earbuds (if you have that problem, spend $20 and buy a SkullCandy set.  Very nice).