ID: B0012Q94AI-R11JHULQSXQG46-A1HVF8GP7LSOT1
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-14-6MP-Digital-Camera-Reduction
ReviewerID: A1HVF8GP7LSOT1
ReviewerName: J. A. Walters
Date: June 7, 2008
Helpful: 20 of 21
Rating: 5.0
Title: Jeff Walters
Content:
I've just had the K20D for about 2 weeks and have really enjoyed it.  Having to decide between Canon, Nikon, Pentax, Olympus, and Sony was difficult after reading so many reviews.  I took a chance on the Pentax based on forums & reviews.  I couldn't find the camera in any stores around my home other than the other brands mentioned.  The Pentax does feel the best in my hands and when I first held it, it is definitely better built than the others.  I bought the 18-55mm AL II kit lens and it does excellent and will purchase the 18-250mm in the future.  I have taken the same type shots with my Minolta film camera from the early 80's and this camera surpasses it in quality.  I was stubborn for a long time to switch to digital after having the money invested in the Minolta lenses and other equipment.  
    I personally think all the major cameras are good and I picked Pentax on a leap of faith.  It was the best camera for the money and future lenses and accessories won't break the bank.  I have not much use yet for the live view feature but many of the features are usable and intuitive.  I really like the idea and flexibility of the front and rear e-dials.  I can adjust the aperture with the rear dial and the shutter speed with the front dial.  If I could change anything I would make the ISO a dedicated button and maybe the white balance.  At least they are at the beginning of the Fn(function) menu button and only requires one extra button to push.
    I would highly recommend this camera unless you shoot alot of sports which the 3 frames per second burst rate doesn't cut it for you.   The picture quality is A-1 and the cropping in on some shots I've taken are just great since I don't have a strong zoom lense yet.  They don't pixelate on the computer and that has to be the 14.1 megapixels at work  with the CMOS sensor.  It is a big difference and I'm glad I have purchased the K20D over the K10D if just for the sensor only.