ID: B001PII4IG-R1IH3OHEYJJRJY-A2Z8A2XNL6YP3D
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VGN-P530H-Lifestyle-Processor-G-Sensor
ReviewerID: A2Z8A2XNL6YP3D
ReviewerName: Carlos "CAP"
Date: May 29, 2009
Helpful: 17 of 17
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Looking Portable Vaio
Content:
Sony did a great job in designing the Vaio P, sure, it won't fit in your pocket, but at a mere 1.5lbs (a bit less), it is so portable.  It functions pretty well for what it's suppose to be, which is a NetBook (sorry Sony).  ...so keep that in mind, do not buy this if what you really need is a laptop, cause you can get laptops that perform way better than the Vaio P at half its cost.  I believe that the unit is representing what a NetBook should be, and hopefully setting a benchmark for future NetBooks.   
Here's my personal experience if anyone cares...
I should mention that I do not have this specific unit, but instead the VGN-P598E/Q, which is the same as this with the exception of a 128GB Solid State; performance wise, no major difference between this model sold by Amazon.com.  The only reason why I went the extra mile was because I really need the space.  The unit has not disappointed me very much yet, sure it can't really play HD video on YouTube or Hulu, or iTunes movies. but that's ok to me, because I need it for productivity.  ...so that's an other thing to keep in mind when buying this movie if you're a movie fanatic or plan on watching movies while traveling.  I use mine to run work related software, and some of that software can be a bit demanding and this little unit can handle it.  THe software I run includes SQL, SharePoint Designer, Visual Studio 2008, the whole Microsoft Office Suite, Adobe CS4, FileMaker Pro 9, iTunes (for music while I work LOL) and others.  ...sure, I do prefer to run these on my iMac, and even my MacBook Air runs them better, but if I'm on the go, I see no reason why I should carry a bigger laptop (I know, the MacBook Air only weighs 1.5lbs more, but it's still bigger), so I decided to get the Sony Vaio P.  If I ever need to give a demo, no problem, the Vaio P ships with a little dongle that lets you plug a VGA monitor or projector into it (that's also the solution if you think the font is to small, or just use the zoom feature).    
...that's sort of how I use the Vaio P, and it has yet to fail me.  
Sure, it might be a bit slow, but not super slow.  I do admit that I had higher expectations, and was disappointed to find out videos aren't handled so well, and that even the most basic game struggles, but I can live with that.  
Before buying the Vaio P, ask your self what you plan on doing with it, if your only using the Microsoft Office Suit, e-mail, browser, etc... the Vaio P will be great, if you plan on playing games, perhaps the Vaio Z will appeal to you.  If you'll miss having a built in disk drive, perhaps you'll prefer the Vaio TT which still weighs under 3lbs.  I will recommend one thing, if you're looking to save money, and can only have one portable computer, or even one computer (meaning not both a desktop and laptop), do not go out and buy a Vaio P, buy it only as a second computer, only as an Ultra Mobile.        
I've always believed that laptops should be ultra mobile, and not as heavy and as ugly as Alienware laptops or other hideous 17" machines (ok, I'll exclude the 17" MacBook Pro from the hideous list), which is why I love my Vaio P and MacBook Air  ...to me, they are nearly perfect, although I do wish they both had nVidia graphics (the MacBook AIr does), and a 2.)GHz or more CPU.  I have owned other NetBooks and Ultra Mobiles, and so far the Vaio P is my favorite.  I've had two Sony Vaio U-series, the Samsung Q1, the Acer Aspire One, the Lenovo S10, and maybe one or two others I really hated and can't remember.  ...the Lenovo S10 and Acer Aspire One will run a lot better than the Vaio P (enough for you to tell a difference) and do cost a lot less, and performance wise I would recommend them anytime over the Vaio P, but they were just to big for me (not to mention the Acer Aspire One is one ugly piece of machine, the new Aspire One looks a bit nicer though).  
Let's just say that if you want portable, a really high resolution monitor, a really bright monitor, a nice keyboard size, good US/Canada based customer service (with a Mac or a Vaio you'll likely never have to call anyways), a great innovative design, only carry 1.5lbs, read both SD and Memory Stick media, the Vaio P is right for you.    
...so anyways, that's more of my opinion on the Vaio P and portable computers, I didn't want to bother writing a review since many websites have already rated the Vaio P, and many self-proclaimed experts have written their review on Amazon.    
As a side note, if you really like your Vaio P, you might want to consider getting a Vaja Case, an extended battery for traveling, perhaps an extra charger for the office, and I would recommend upgrading to Windows 7 as soon as it becomes available for better performance (or downgrading the XP, which I'm not doing).  
As for others reviewing the Vaio P, understand what this machine is meant to do, and what it's for, prior to giving it 3 or less stars with any justification other than  complaining about how it costs to much.  
-I just wanted to post an update.  The new Vaio P laptops are out, and they come with 1.6 and 1.8GHz processors.  For those interested in a more affordable computer, which Sony is also labeling as a "mini laptop", the Vaio W comes out August 2009.  The W series won't be as small as the P series though.