ID: B001FA4IFM-R1WB7DM8EGJDSH-AY50S2HZHQO2Q
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Holmes-HCH4953-U-Ceramic-Electronic-Thermostat
ReviewerID: AY50S2HZHQO2Q
ReviewerName: R. Foster "rwf"
Date: March 10, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: It's kept me warm
Content:
I have to say I've enjoyed my unit.  It's the only heat I've had in my large north-east exposure, 2nd floor bedroom over a 2-car garage and still kept it toasty warm.  We've had cold weather - much more snow than we've ever had at one time - and it's been a great little heater.  I doubt the thermostat is correct ... I just adjust it up or down as needed.  So glad I got it.  The 2 Laskos I had were very loud and ineffective.  They stopped after only a couple of weeks and not during our coldest weather.  This has been very quiet and I really like it.  I bought mine from Amazon, and now I see it's sold by a vendor I won't use at $11 higher price than I paid.  I bought mine mid-December 2009.  
It's been safe to have around my small dog and my 2 yr. old grand-daughter.  I would buy it again if Amazon is the vendor and it is a reasonable price.
I hate being cold.
Update (3-28-10)  It suddenly quit.  Not sure why yet.  The temperature can still get cold so I'm not happy.  Like another reviewer said it turns itself off no matter what.  So what's up with that?  It's been about the same 4 month time frame as the other reviewer mentioned.  Have to figure something to do about it.  Not too sure I would give it the same rating now.  I hate being cold.
Update - 04-01-10 - Discovered that the heater melted the plastic outlet on the heavy duty extension cord I had to use because of the heater's short cord. At first it looked like the heater plug had arc-welded itself to the extension cord.  But instead it melted everything inside the extension cord outlet. Thank gooness it was the only thing on that extension cord and the only thing plugged into that wall socket.  We thought after prying it loose from (and destroying)  the extension cord that the heater was fine since its plug looked normal.  But something's changed the prongs, and it won't plug in anywhere.  
So lesson learned - don't use even heavy duty extension cords (even with a built-in breaker and being the only item plugged into it and only thing plugged into the wall socket).  I don't trust this heater enough to buy another of it's kind.  I feel fortunate it didn't catch my house on fire.