ID: B001FA21RE-RCGFPKD17JTG2-A1Y3X3C1VLGAES
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Nescafe-KP210650-Single-Serve-Coffee-Machine
ReviewerID: A1Y3X3C1VLGAES
ReviewerName: John Morton
Date: April 28, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 8
Rating: 4.0
Title: A coffee machine that excels at making more than coffee
Content:
Length:: 4:35 MinsNescafe Dolce Gusto Single-Serve Coffee Machine has the wrong name, but that's not a bad thing for those who own it. It makes much more than "coffee." Happily, it makes a large variety of coffee drinks really well. The cappuccinos, espressos, etc. are really delicious. Being a chocolate fan, my favorite is the Nescafe Dolce Gusto Chococino, which is doesn't actually contain coffee, just delicious chocolate and frothy milk.
But you have to buy the machine to get the great drinks. So how's the machine? Very good. There are a few design modifications I'd make to it to help maximize my counter space, but I do enjoy having it. The set up was extremely easy and making the different coffee drinks is even easier. Check out my video to see how tough it would be to actually mess up making a cappuccino.
Pros
1. Great coffee drinks. Just like the ones you'd buy at an expensive coffee shop, but you don't have to go there. (You've got free wifi at home already anyway, right?)
2. Very easy clean up. There really is very little clean up at all since each coffee serving is made by using disposable coffee "capsules."
3. Once the cost of the machine is paid for, your coffee drinks run about $1. That's much better that that expensive coffee shop, right?
 
Cons
1. The shape of the machine is a little problematic for a New York City apartment. If you can view the view I've uploaded with this review, you can see how much of my counter it takes up. It might be pretty to look at with its curves, but those curves eat up a lot of my limited counter space. 
2. I wish the machine had some way of knowing what type of coffee "module" you had inserted and measured the proper amount of hot water coming through based on that. If you don't use the cups that come with it, you'll need to do some experimentation to get the coffee strength to your liking.
3. My *primary* problem with the entire system is the waste it produces. The packaging of the individual coffee "modules" are not recyclable. I checked the products web site because I wasn't sure if I was supposed to put them in the plastics recycling. 
The site's FAQ say:
Are the capsules recyclable?
No. Used Dolce Gusto® capsules should be disposed of together with household waste and be either land filled or incinerated.
That's disappointing. Since these are the piece of the system that we continue to buy and throw out, I hope Nescafe can figure out a way to make them more environmentally-friendly in the future.
If you can look past the recycling issue though, this is a very nice machine for a coffee lover.