ID: B001E52VZ2-R15RSBG1OPJLAS-A3TZ6HH5XIQAZN
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Eureka-3670G-Mighty-Canister-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A3TZ6HH5XIQAZN
ReviewerName: Eve Loggins
Date: January 3, 2008
Helpful: 15 of 15
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best floor vac EVER, especially if you have pets!!
Content:
Okay, I deeply love this vacuum.  And let me first state that I am not the kind of person to just hand out praise over nothing.  I am usually the one criticizing.  I know my review is long but that's because I love this vac so much. I cleaned houses all through college and that's where I discovered this vacuum. I bought it because it was cheap!  To this day it remains the one thing I CANNOT clean without.  
    Now, keep in mind, this is NOT a vacuum for all-carpeted houses (it has no rotating brushes) but it does work on carpet, especially if you have no pets. That said, it is ideal for old rugs that can be easily damaged by the rotating brushes. However, it is the best for floors without carpet--and everything else. The long, light-weight and adjustable hose allows you to reach ALL COBWEBS, and you can use the bristle brush to dust everything in your house without ever touching the dust yourself! I dust the leaves of my indoor plants, lamp shades, windowsills, upholstery...anything that gathers dust can be vacuumed with this! Did you groggily spill coffee grounds all over the counter making the morning coffee? Grab The Boss. 
    It uses bags (they aren't the most common size, MM, but are at walmart and kmart and they're cheap so stock up) which I love. I don't understand the whole 'bagless' craze--it just means you get to scrape the crud out with your hands.  
    It comes with a few attachments all of which work incredibly well. It has an edger that I use on baseboards--never bend down again! It has AWESOME SUCTION POWER--the most important vacuum feature. Stick it into a jar full of change and it will disappear! (Not that I recommend this, it would be dumb. But you know, sometimes you don't feel like picking that nickel off the floor). 
    I have owned the same one since 1998 and have never had a single problem!! My house is all hardwood, I HAVE FOUR SHEDDING DOGS and I do not own a broom. I love this vacuum like a child!