ID: B001D8S9E2-R3FRMU1AJ1AG4I-A38YCYOUJHI2B4
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB466LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A38YCYOUJHI2B4
ReviewerName: Guido Weppler "gjw50"
Date: November 13, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 4
Rating: 3.0
Title: Beautiful but functionally disappointing
Content:
I just bought my first Apple, a Macbook Pro (13"). Nice piece of artwork. But I'm shocked by the catastrophic font display and apparent lack of adjustment options (yes, seen the font smoothing option but the result's a joke with or without). I've read many posts on how apple's rendering is different from Windows, how exactly they manage to put so much thought into creating such a poor result, and how people prefer one or the other. But this seems just plain wrong -- I can't believe that there's so many people out there who, out of pure love for original font geometry (or for love of Apple), are willing to sacrifice readability/usability. 
There's some other disappointing surprises for someone who switches from Windows:
- no easy window maximise/minimise, maximisation only via green button that maximises to the layout Apple considers best (I'd often prefer a different window size, mostly full screen, particularly on 13"). That means you end up using the mouse & moving/changing windows all the time.
- very inefficient handling of screen real estate. Lots of permanently displayed info / top menu rows etc that you really don't need most of the time and that cut down usable screen area. Maybe I just haven't found it yet, but I don't see an easy way to switch to full screen.   
- sharp front edge on the unibody... that's very uncomfortable after a short while. Somewhere else I read that for Apple, clearly function follows form. That strikes me as spot on now...
- Yes, you can soft-double-tap the large mouse pad, but if you decide to mechanically click it (you can do that anywhere on the pad), the sound of the mechanics is annoyingly loud. 
 
Bottom line: I feel mislead by a good amount of (unjustified) enthusiasm of the Apple fans around me. Next time I need to satisfy an esthetic urge, I'll go and buy a new watch instead. Going Apple doesn't seem to be the right reaction if you're unhappy with Microsoft.