ID: B00138R12I-R19T6R1DXR6T93-A1T3A1Y6SWY2EU
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Sony-DSLRA300X-SteadyShot-Stabilization-55-200mm
ReviewerID: A1T3A1Y6SWY2EU
ReviewerName: Robert Correll
Date: May 17, 2008
Helpful: 38 of 40
Rating: 5.0
Title: Lives up to high expectations. Great entry-level+ DSLR.
Content:
My first DSLR, and I am very satisfied.
Why I bought it:
Live View - excellent implementation. This was my number one purchase point for this camera.  Fast switching to and from the Optical Viewfinder. You can use Live View outside of the studio and it acts just like a standard consumer digital camera screen. Screen tilts, which is handy.
10MP - this is the sweet spot for price and capability. The Alpha 350 has 14MP, but I decided to save the money and buy a few accessories right away.
RAW+JPEG - I wanted a camera that shot RAW+JPEG and didn't skimp on the JPEG. You can shoot high-quality JPEG and RAW at the same time.
Great photos - has to do that.
Good surprises after I got the camera and started using it:
Ease of Use - very easy to start using right out of the box (recharge the battery first).
Steady Shot - gives me the confidence to shoot without a tripod and it has a nice readout on the LCD that tells you when you're shaking.
Battery life - I've been taking quite a few photos the last week and have yet to recharge the internal battery.
Display Button - easy to press and review your photos. Very easy to get back to shooting.
Minor Bad Point - in-camera flash is very low and kit lens casts a shadow if you are too close to your subject. I got an HVL-F36AM external flash with the camera so I don't have to worry about this too much.
Some mention that the viewfinder is small, but I used it all day today because of the bright sunlight and was happy with it. I was sitting in our vehicle and noticed a tank in my side mirror. I decided to take the photo using auto focus but that didn't work, so I focused manually on the tank about 30 yards behind me through the driver's side window in the left side mirror and got a perfectly sharp picture using the Optical Viewfinder.
Great camera!!