ID: B001D8S9E2-R18VIJGP0HZXEF-A2IN8DGB40I1MK
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB466LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2IN8DGB40I1MK
ReviewerName: G. Sampson
Date: October 17, 2008
Helpful: 22 of 33
Rating: 5.0
Title: A great product made even better!
Content:
I had the Black Macbook with all the specs as this one has (2.4 ghz, 2gb Memory, 250 Hard Drive). After Apple had announced this new notebook, I was in awe. I went out the next day, even though I just purchased my last MacBook a few months ago, and purchased this new MacBook. This notebook is much better than the previous version. Below are a few of my observations and some things I like (and don't).
The Likes: The screen, though very shiny and mirror like, has a more crisp look and is brighter. Right when I first powered the device up I noticed the difference. Even though the processor is the same speed, this MacBook seems much quicker. This is probably due to the new graphics card. The new MacBook looks a lot better since it is made of aluminum rather than plastic. This makes the older MacBooks look cheaper, in my opinion. This one feels much more sturdy and better made. My two favorite additions are the light up keyboard and the trackpad. First, the light up keyboard is very helpful and looks really great. The glass trackpad doesn't look or feel glass at all. The whole trackpad is the clicker, which is something I do not use. I changed the trackpad settings to allow me to click just by tapping and right click by tapping with two fingers. This is really something that is better experienced than told. I am excited to try out the 24in LED display that Apple says was made for the Macbook (should be available November 08). Oh, and the sound on this MacBook seems so much better in this new Mac compared to the last version.
Don't Like: Not happy Apple did away with Firewire for this device. I have an external hard drive that I'm not going to be able to use not that I have my new MacBook. I could use USB but that takes too long. The only other reason I would use Firewire would be to migrate my information from my old Mac to my new one. This was thought of by Apple, which was fix by users being able to migrate data using ethernet (I was told at the Apple Store that this is somewhat faster than Firewire). This is the only complaint I've had so far, but it's not that big of a deal for me. Although it makes me want to get the Time Capsule wireless hard drive Apple has (this was probably their plan!).
If you've never owned a Mac, I say give this baby a try. You can install Windows if you'd like, and Macs are known to last a lot longer since they do not get viruses as much as other computers. This is a great device, but I hope Apple waits awhile to give the MacBook line a new upgrade so I can keep this device a little longer than I kept my last MacBook. Thanks Apple for a great a really beautiful upgrade!