ID: B001NPDKWG-R1YRFTQZIB16TT-A2QDSC731OQC3P
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV4-1220US-14-1-Inch-Processor-Premium
ReviewerID: A2QDSC731OQC3P
ReviewerName: Keeper
Date: February 4, 2009
Helpful: 20 of 21
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Laptop
Content:
This is my first laptop and I think I made a great choice.  Firstly, I bought it directly from hp.com and with the rebates I had, saved two hundred dollars. Secondly, I got free 2 day shipping and it arrived on time.
The first thing I like about it is that the color is not the cheap gold look you see in the picture. I love the keyboards on HPs Entertainment and Special Edition notebooks. They do not feel cramped. There have been many cmplaints about the glare of the keyboards on this and the black and chrome models.  So far, I have had no problems with the glare.  Yes, I agree with the other reviewer, that the keys are hard to see in the dark.  I would assume that would be the case for any laptop unless it is backlighted and this is not. It is light (wtihtout the battery), the speakers generate nice sound, it finds wireless networks instantly, and I actually like Vista.    Just a note, read up on accessing the hidden administrator account if you are new to Vista.  It has some serious security that will keep you from making even the most basic adjustments, including removing the bloatware. 
HP has done a wonderful job in including set up tutorials and online registration processes. The size is fantastic and screen is beautiful.  I have not attached any peripherals up to it yet, so I cannot really comment on that.
Cons:
The battery life is short.. maybe an hour and a half even when it in the recommended power save mode. It has a lighted HP emblem on the back of the cover that uses resources. HP could have added the backlighted keyboard instead!  The verdict is still out on there telephone tech service!  I have had better experience with there chat support.
The comp does sound like it is working overtime anytime I burn a CD and the vibration generating from drive is a bit too much for me to type at the same time.
This is a great laptop, esp. if you can get it for under $[...]. It has only some bells and whistles, so if you want built in bluetooth and a blueray player, you will have to go up a model.  Otherwise, no reason not to consider this one.