ID: B001NPDKUI-R1QPDOZPAHCSQA-A312BDOXJZO4A5
Category: Laptops
Product: HP-Pavilion-G60-230US-16-0-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A312BDOXJZO4A5
ReviewerName: Aricka Johnson "Aricka"
Date: August 27, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great Value Great Computer
Content:
My parents bought this (G60-230us) for me in Feb 2009 when I decided to go back to school. So far the only problem I had was with the battery. When plugged in one day the power light kept blinking and it said my battery was not charging. I called HP and was sent a new battery free of charge. Then when I received the new battery it did it again, HP told me to take the battery out and hold the power button for 45 seconds. This seemed to work until a few days later it started acting up again. I have noticed that it only does this if the laptop gets too hot, so this is probably my fault bc Im always sitting in bed with it and my comforter blocks the fan. After unblocking the fan it works and charges just fine...so maybe this is some kind of safety measure? Anyways, one feature that I would like for this laptop to have is a backlit keyboard and a better placement of the powersource cord (it sticks out on the side and gets caught on stuff). Other than that this computer has yet to do me wrong. When you get it just make sure to clean out the bloatware bc this baby is loaded with it! If you have pets that like to jump in your lap while on the computer be wary bc my five month old pug jumped on my lap and when she slid off she popped off the right arrow key and broke the plastic retainer (its been hell finding a replacement). The finish of this laptop is beautiful but it is easily dirtied by fingerprints and dust, as well as the screen. I have yet to burn dvds or cds on here but Im sure it wont be a problem. I dont see why everyone hates Vista b/c I have used every new version since Windows 95 and I adapted to this like a fish in water...just be careful not to accidentally delete the trashcan bc once you do and you get it back it somehow loses its "brain" and the icon is forever empty or full lol. I pretty much use this laptop for word documents, research, and screwing around on the internet so I am satisfied with this laptop and I hope it lasts a long time.