ID: B00176AX6W-R3POHRXILJ12MR-A2TGEC3ULEFDBQ
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Red
ReviewerID: A2TGEC3ULEFDBQ
ReviewerName: Eric D. Murphy
Date: August 7, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 1.0
Title: If you buy a Zune, I promise you will be Disappointed.
Content:
I had wanted a mp3 player for a while before buying my Zune.  It seemed like everyone I knew had an iPod and I was kinda hoping to do something different, plus I really didn't care for itunes either.  So,I bought a Zune.   I have never gone jogging with my zune ( or without it for that matter), I dont use the Zune in the car (the FM transmitter Zune makes, which used to cost like 70 dollars is also a piece of junk,  all I get is a lot of static), and in fact I don't hardly use it at all except around the house.   I have never dropped it, never exposed it to water, its been in a Zune case the entire time I have had it.  Somehow, I'm still looking at a useless piece of metal, plastic, and screen today.
  About 2 months after purchasing my Zune the software on the zune went haywire,and I had to send it in to the company.  The warranty did cover my repair, and about 2 months later I got a Zune back.   Not the same Zune I sent in, but a refurbished one.   I am certain that it was a refurbished Zune because it had an earlier serial number than the one I sent in,  there was a small indentation in the metal close to where the earphones plug in (as if the previous owner had dropped it), and because the touchpad never worked quite right either.  I was a bit disappointed, but at least I had it back and it worked.  I kept it, and used it occasionally.  I cannot stress enough the fact that this Zune has NEVER been dropped, never even been used anywhere other than my house or at friends houses, and there's literally not a single scratch or dent anywhere on it (aside from the one it came with).  I ran through the full battery about 15 times, always charged it back up all the way, and running the battery back down all the way.  One day I take it and plug it into the computer to charge it up and... Nothing happens.  All it does is show me a dead battery symbol when I try to start it.  When I plug it in to any charging source it shows the dead battery with a charge symbol in it as if it were beginning to charge up, but will not start up and will not connect with Zune software.  
  So...Lets get some technical support.  All of the attempts at re-booting and re-calibrating the battery that tech support online suggested did not change anything.  I find the phone number for tech support and get the usual automated crap for about 15 minutes until I can finally speak the word "Agent" into my cell phone.  I'm quickly connected to someone who works at an outsourced Microsoft customer service place, and I am told that for 159 dollars I can send my already refurbished Zune in to be worked on and returned to me.  Which, coincidentally, I believe is the going rate for a new 80 Gig Zune anyways.  When I politely push the issue that I have already spent nearly 400 dollars on Zune products between the device, FM transmitter, (which if you recall I don't use anyways because it works horribly) and the Official leather Zune case (which is actually kind of nice), I am turned over to the gentlemans supervisor.  The Supervisor then explains to me that electronic products like these just sometimes stop working, and there's no way to know when they might stop working, and seemed to suggest that maybe I just happened to get a bad Device.  I was offered one last chance to buy another one,  or to upgrade to the 120 Gig Zune.  I let her know that I intended to bash the Zune every chance I got, and she let me know that Microsoft appreciated my feedback.
 So, here I am 360 some dollars in the hole, and nothing to show for it.  I hardly got to use the thing, and the majority of the time I did it worked poorly.  Please do not waste money on the Zune.  Right now I am using my girlfriends old 8 gig off-brand Gigaware MP3 player, and it seems to be working fine some 3 years down the road.  And she takes it to the gym, runs with it etc.  If you buy a Zune, I promise you that you will be disappointed.