ID: B001FA1NJG-RX8CH7A3EEK4F-A2HQ8IV2UKOHMJ
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-120-Video-MP3-Player
ReviewerID: A2HQ8IV2UKOHMJ
ReviewerName: A. McBride
Date: February 24, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: product ok, service not that great
Content:
Edit to earlier review:
While using my Zune device, I tried to advance a track and the thing froze.  I tried to restart it and I got a gray screen that told me to "contact support" and it was making a lot of loud clicking noises.  Basically, since it was still under warranty, I had to send it back to  Microsoft.  It was easy enough to print the shipping label and send it from the instructions on [...]
After about a MONTH I received a replacement Zune 120 in the mail, it had some music on it (which I never added).  All of the music, video, and podcasts that I had on my old Zune 120 is gone.
On top of all this, they put a sticker on the screen telling me I need to "charge my zune"...duh.  The best part; the adhesive on the DID NOT COME OFF THE SCREEN!  So now, the paper backing from the sticker is stuck on the lower left hand corner of the screen.  I called customer service to tell them about the worthlessness of the sticker and the inconvenience that it caused.  After being on hold for about 5 min, the customer service rep told me to rub it with a "dry cloth".  ARE YOU F'ING KIDDING ME?  A DRY CLOTH?  How many sticker adhesives do you know can be taken off by rubbing it with a dry cloth?
Zune has terrible customer service!
old review...
"I decided to buy the Zune 120 after my 80g iPod crapped out 2 months after my warranty expired. I am extremely happy  with this product!  Everything works, it has a HUGE storage capacity, and the Zune software is impressively intuitive and easy to use (I like it better than iTunes).  
I don't understand the bad reviews of this product that I've seen on cNet and other sites.  It seems like many of the complaints people have about this Zune/Zune software are based on operator error/lack of intelligence.  
I can't describe its durability yet as I've only had it for a couple of months but if feels solid.
The only thing the Zune 120 is missing IMHO is an EQ function.
I can't believe Zune doesn't market these anymore and have switched completely to the Zune HD, this is a great product!"