ID: B001G5ZTLS-R2KICPMO6OF5XO-A2J3QPQG2W0517
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-EOS-5D-Mark-II
ReviewerID: A2J3QPQG2W0517
ReviewerName: James M. Brown
Date: June 29, 2009
Helpful: 12 of 12
Rating: 5.0
Title: The Best DSLR So Far
Content:
The 5D Mark II represents the future of digital SLR photography/videography. I was fortunate to purchase my kit with the EF 24-105 f/4L at its actual list price of $3,499 through Amazon and sold by 6 Ave Electronics on December 29, 2008. That offer was only available for about 6 hours. Now that I have used the camera for 6 months, I would even now pay a significant premium over the list price to have it. In my opinion it is worth much more than the list price in terms of advancements in low-light, low-noise and quick exposure setting features. It also has markedly improved picture quality over all other Canon DSLRs with the exception of the 1Ds Mark III ($7,000 street) which it at least matches. 
This camera isn't perfect. The 5D Mark II does have a lower frame rate than some other very fine cameras at 3.9 frames per second. Nevertheless, this frame rate has been fine for my purposes, including wildlife and bird photography. I am able to catch hummingbirds in flight. Unless you are a professional sports or action photographer there is simply no need to consider the much more expensive 1 series camera bodies.
I would have preferred more focus points than the 9 visible and 6 invisible points this camera provides, though in normal lighting conditions there has been no problem getting fast, accurate focus. In very low light where the shot requires an ISO of 3200 or 6400 and no flash, the camera does sometimes have trouble, especially with moving or flat, low-contrast subjects. But considering that we wouldn't even be able to get an essentially noise-free image with another camera at these settings it seems a small criticism.
This camera also lacks an internal flash. Some people may feel this to be a loss, but with the extraordinary low-light capability of the 5D Mark II I haven't missed this feature at all. When I want to use a flash I can easily attach one, and that seems to be a rare event now. The ability to capture low light images without the exposure problems flash often causes is an enormous improvement for me. And when I need a flash I always have my 580 EX II available, though it does add some weight to this body.
The high resolution of this camera will show up flaws in any attached lens. Thus, you are going to have to use high quality glass to get the most out of the body. Those who are not able or willing to make an investment in "L" quality lenses would probably be just as happy with a 50D or similar bodies from other manufacturers. On the other hand, this camera's ability to register most Canon lenses and eliminate problems like peripheral illumination has proven remarkable during my use. 
Notably, there are many other improvements over the original 5D, which was a wonderful camera that many people would still be very happy with. The Mark II's new display is outstanding; while a few other cameras now offer the same 3 inch high resolution LCD, the new display allows the user to enlarge the image enough to get a very good idea of what the final image will look like in print. When using auto ISO settings the camera makes very good choices to capture the best image possible. In fact, the algorithms this camera's DIGIC 4 processor uses for all its settings seem superior to any of the others I have looked at. And if you don't like the choices the camera makes, it is completely customizable, including 3 user settings on the main control knob.
Then too, you do have to read the manual and take time to learn the many controls and settings that are available. I am convinced that several of the negative reviews on this site are simply the result of not understanding the full capabilities of this camera. For example comments about the "sharpness" of photos fail to take into account that the camera comes with certain sharpness settings by default, but that these can be changed and images sharpened to an almost garish degree. Other comments about supposed failings of different portrait mode settings or white balance adjustments likewise seem not to recognize that nearly every setting on this camera can be modified to match the operator's desires. This is a highly advanced instrument which requires some study before taking it out into the field.
One way to judge a camera body is by the people who choose to use it. The outstanding professional photographer and professor of photography, Pete Souza was named official Whitehouse photographer earlier this year; his history-making first digital official Presidential portrait of President Obama was made using a 5D Mark II. Numerous photo journalists, wedding and event photographers and others who make their living with their equipment are using 5D Mark II bodies. I am also seeing this camera being used more and more by sports photographers, despite its 3.9 fps rate.
I have said nothing about the video capability. This was not a reason for my purchase, but I have been impressed by the quality of the videos this camera produces. I did not at first recognize what a game changer high def video capability in an SLR would become. It is interesting that Canon has now issued a firmware upgrade to allow full manual exposure control during videography which in my experience works very well. You must, however, have a good quality computer with a fast processor and high end video card to be able to edit the high def output.
Like any other camera, there are a few small things Canon could have done to make this an even more remarkable improvement over the original 5D. But taken as a whole, for my money this is far and away the best, most feature rich and useable DSLR available for professional and serious photographers.