ID: B001P05NJ2-RGCP8BEV1I21R-A1EUYV1OL52EWJ
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MC026LL-15-4-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1EUYV1OL52EWJ
ReviewerName: Guapo Gringo
Date: February 16, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Speed! Speed! Speed!
Content:
** UPDATE - 5/20/09 **
Having owned this Mac notebook for a little over two weeks now, I can safely say it maintains the 5/5 stars I have given it.  I recently installed Windows XP Professional under Bootcamp and it went really smoothly; I still need Windows for some proprietary software I use, and for some mild gaming.  For instance, I picked up Oblivion - GOTY Edition for $20 and thought I'd give it a good run on the Macbook Pro.
I haven't had a chance to run any heavy-hitter games yet, but Oblivion runs beautifully at the full 1440x900 w/ 4x AA and Very High Quality settings.  I'm averaging anywhere from 25fps-60fps, depending on the number of sprites; forests (35-40fps), oblivion (40-42fps), town squares (50fps), water and swimming (30-40fps).  The lowest I've seen is 25fps but haven't been able to replicate it; I'm thinking it was Windows running a background process I missed or forget to turn off.  In any case, it runs beautifully.
I've really come to appreciate the extra screen real estate, and the display quality of the MBP.  We own a mid-2008 20" iMac 2.66Ghz and the screen is every bit as good of quality; I really feel like the Macbook Pro is like a "portable iMac" in terms of speed and display quality.  It's that good!
Lastly, I had a chance to pick up Apple's DisplayPort -> VGA adapter since I will need to hook this notebook up to a LCD projector more than a few times next semester.  The dongle is not cheap but does what it says it will without any fuss.  To test it, I hooked it up to my 42" 1080i HDTV and it looked beautiful, no interference or pixelation.
Two weeks later, this little guy is still working every bit as good as the day I bought it.  :-)
--
For the past few weeks, I've been shopping for a new notebook computer.  I've owned/used Mac in the past, but am comfortable in both worlds; I prefer Mac, but can get along fine in Windows too.
I inevitably ended up with the 15" Macbook Pro 2.66Ghz because of the sheer size, weight, and performance.  After I spent some time actually touching/using all the competing brands, I came to the following conclusion--you truly do get what you pay for.
Some would argue that Macs are too expensive and not worth the hefty cost over their Windows/PC counterparts. Moreover, they would also say that you're paying extra for the fancy-shmancy design and chimp-simple ease of use, not to mention feeding into the smugness of the Mac community.
However, my wife and I have owned Macs for the last few years, and I've had a really good experience owning Apple computers. 
One thing I noticed immediately is the build quality; it's amazing, and very well made.  When you pick up the computer, it feels very rigid and sturdy; it really does feel like a solid piece of equipment compared to other notebooks.
The fans are very quiet and the unit seems to regulate heat/temperature very well.  When I turn it on, the Macbook 'bonggggg' sound is the only thing I hear, and cannot hear the hard drive at all.  It's probably the quietest computer I've ever owned.
I've not owned this unit long enough (less than 36hrs) to give a more detailed example, but I'm very delighted with the performance in iMovie and iPhoto '09.  It's VERY fast.
All in all, whether you choose the 2.4Ghz or 2.6Ghz, it's a great investment in a notebook computer.  Again, you really do get what you pay for.