ID: B001GCTT7G-R3QSYUIJYE4UWB-A3FYLXSRKSPJ2D
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB467LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A3FYLXSRKSPJ2D
ReviewerName: T. Olivett
Date: October 22, 2008
Helpful: 10 of 21
Rating: 5.0
Title: I actually have one & don't miss firewire at all
Content:
I've been buying apple products going back to the IIe through Mac Se, Mac Classic, Duo (remember those), Powerbook 5300, iMac, Mac Mini, Intel iBook etc.  I used a firewire drive on the iMac to add a cd burner and since then I did have to use firewire to use target disk mode for my mini (once in 4 years).
SO, MY POINT IS...
The reviews about the missing firewire port obviously come from people who are obviously Apple loyalists like myself and are reviewing company policy not the product. 
I am amazed at my new macbook.  I usually don't buy first gen, but needed a new laptop at the right time (actually thought I'd get a discounted macbook pro after Apple's new product line) and was amazed at the overall elegance of not just the design of the computer but everything from the frontside bus & ram clock speed to the switchable hard drive, standard super drive and in the 3 days I've had it, the joy of the touch pad. 
Every laptop I've had, I've always hooked up a mouse at home cause I hated the trackpad of all brands (pc's with their double click make me feel like I'm wearing mittens).  
But the new touchpad is already intuitive, in fact a mouse would feel more uncomfortable. I can set how I want to right click (even if that was all it did I'd cheer) The keyboard's great.  So far it's easily the quietest, coolest (as in temperature) laptop I've ever used.
Yeah, it doesn't have a firewire port but since I bought this as a personal computer and don't have any firewire video cameras (hey if you're buying laptops as soon as they're released, you're probably up to date on what cameras you're using).
And it has a glossy screen.  I like the way the led (light emitting diode screen) really jumps at you, but i suppose if I take it on a picnic, I'll have to find a shady tree so I can ruin my picnic and work on my computer.
Again, if you're not going to use this macbook as an intensive professional systems & networking tool (and if that's what you use computers for get the macbook PRO (as in professional) but feel free to snicker at me.  I'll be too immersed in my macbook to pay attention.
If next year Apple or anybody finally creates a laptop that serves all users, is infinitely upgradeable, a 1/4" thin and 8 ounces & has card slots, an sata port, 3200 firewire, ethernet, direct rca digital cable input, then I'll know I shoulda waited.  
Oh by the way, the new speakers are actually pretty good, that is to say a 1000 times better than the previous models.