ID: B001G5ZTMM-R2DF6X87SBSB61-A23YMLTXOXDMTD
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-EOS-5D-Mark-II
ReviewerID: A23YMLTXOXDMTD
ReviewerName: M. Dillon
Date: October 20, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 4.0
Title: A very good camera from Canon
Content:
I went from a film SLR to a few of the early point-and-shoot digitals to a 10D and now a 5D Mark II.  In the early days I wasn't willing to buy high-end digitals due to the ridiculously fast pace of the technology progression.  The 5D II finally sold me.
Generally speaking I am quite happy with the camera.  It took some fiddling to get the picture quality I wanted.  My 100-400mm F4 L works incredibly well and has no AF issues.  My 28-105 (stock) F4 L was consistently soft on the AF but the fine focus adjustment CF fixed the issue.  It was surprisingly easy to calibrate, just switch between live-mode focusing (which is very slow but perfect) and standard AF and adjust the fine focus until they match.  I had go all the way to +12 on my 28-105.  On a pixel-by-pixel basis there is still some slight softness looking at the raws, but it looks unavoidable considering how the RGB matrix works on a sensor, plus noise reduction (depending on the ISO one is shooting at), and it is unnoticeable on prints or reductions.  Still, I can only give Canon 3 stars on the AF because while it is always perfect on zooms sometimes it is just too wonky at wider angles, and the camera's automatic AF point selection is a roll of the dice.  Fortunately the AF point can be easily selected.  Finally, I also noticed that the AF sometimes got in the way of shooting with the zoom or tele, where I would hit the shutter button on a fast-moving subject that was never-the-less still in focus, and the camera would decide not to take the picture.  Possibly it was just the AF mode I was in, but it seemed a bit inconsistent.
The only way to go is to take full RAW photos and clean them up in post-production.  Canon isn't known for good auto-white-balance but it's a minor inconvenience in post. The 14-bit ADC has wonderful dynamic range.  I had no problem cleaning up wedding photos taken in horrid lighting conditions (beige walls, mix of fluorescents, flash).
I also purchased the wireless file transmitter (WFT-E4A).  The WFT is incredibly convenient.  No cables, no fuss... even if I'm not shooting in an area with internet access it's amazing how convenient it is to get it into the computer back home when I do get into range of a base station, or even once I get home.
Battery life is excellent compared to earlier models.  I have no complaints on that front.  Both lens are excellent. I upgraded my flash as well.  The 580ExII flash is excellent, far better then the 4xx series I had on my 10D.  Big CF cards with UDMA are expensive but mandatory.  This is not a cheap camera even if you don't count the lens.  The RAWs hit 30MB and you will be unhappy if you aren't using 16G UDMA CF cards.  The camera has no problem taking 500+ full blown shots on one set.
Finally I am very impressed with the video capabilities.  It took some messing around to get it figured out but I finally hit upon the '+' button to zoom the live-view, making manual focusing while shooting possible.  Being able to adjust the exposure w/ the new camera firmware is wonderful, too!  The quality is insane, I'll have to buy a faster computer to process it.  It is not a camcorder so don't expect it to behave like one.  It definitely works best when the subject is at a fixed focal point.  Taking video with 100-400mm in stabilization mode 2 just blew me away.
One thing I would love to have on this camera is the ability to set a specific auto-ISO range (e.g. 100-800, 400-1200, 800-3200, etc) and then be able to fix both Av and Tv and have the camera only adjust the ISO and flash exposure.  I'm a bit miffed that Canon hasn't done something like that yet. The current auto-ISO does not work very well in any mode other then Av.  So that lack plus the AF issues cause me to drop the review to 4 stars even though I think the camera's only competition is the high-end Nikon (and Nikon has its own issues).
-Matt