ID: B0013FJBX8-R11A3T2ESFND8U-AH6E5GDDVELF1
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB470LL-15-4-Inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: AH6E5GDDVELF1
ReviewerName: Smart Little Magpie
Date: December 13, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Amazing machine
Content:
I should provide a disclaimer:  I'm a Windows convert, though I used Macs intermittently over the past 14 years; I wasn't paying attention to how cool they'd gotten until the new Macbooks came out and I realized that OS X existed.  Therefore, this review doesn't compare the new MBP with the more recent older Mac machines.  I'm mostly just comparing my new MBP to the long string of Windows machines I've owned, the most recent one being a beefy version of the Dell Latitude D610 laptop. 
That said, it's been a month since I received my new MBP from Amazon, and I absolutely love it.
Keyboard:  very comfortable and quiet; limited space to get crumbs stuck beneath the keys.  Very good size.
Trackpad:  Generous space and smooth operation for the most part; the only shadow in my glowing review is that as others have mentioned, the trackpad can be really buggy sometimes.  It was definitely worse right out of the box, so don't let that scare you if it happens - it gets better with use.  A month later, I almost prefer using the trackpad to a regular mouse because of its multitouch functions that make scrolling and navigating such a breeze, and I love the smooth feel of the pad itself, but it won't always register a double click on an item if I, say, want to pick up a file and drag it somewhere.  Sometimes even physically clicking the pad won't register appropriately.  I have the bottom right corner designated as "right-click," but sometimes areas other than that one will register as right-clicks, too.  This doesn't happen all the time, but it's still kind of irritating that it happens at all.  Even given that, though, I love this trackpad and wouldn't trade it for any PC trackpad.
Chassis:  so, so solid, yet so lightweight, thin and beautiful.  You can feel this for yourself if you go play with one at an Apple store.  I'll be heeding others' comments here about how thin the metal is around some of the ports, though.
Screen:  lots of people hate it.  I don't!  I work with my computer in a variety of different light settings around my home and I took it to my office once, but I have not used it outside yet (but come springtime, you can bet I will).  Yes, sometimes there is glare, but guess what?  I can tilt the screen or shift the computer a little to one side to avoid most of it.  I think the quality and beauty of the screen is more than worth these tiny adjustments I have to make to compensate for its reflectiveness.  Some people definitely prefer matte screens, but if you like the look of the glossy screen or want the color quality that comes with it, don't fear the glare, unless you're super picky about the kinds of adjustments I described.  (One note, though it's already been said:  the regular MB does not have as nice a screen; comparing the two myself in an Apple store, I could definitely see a difference in color quality and viewing angles.)
OS:  I really love the new Mac OS.  It's so seamless, so intuitive, and I love how all the programs work together.  It's not as if I need an OS this user-friendly, either; I was technically savvy enough to understand Windows pretty well, and I use Linux at work.  But it's just so nice to come home to an OS that knows what it's doing and does things for me.  Also, with Mac much more popular nowadays, my fears of finding software options closed to me have proven unfounded.  Granted, I'm not looking for any particularly necessary, high-end software for major projects; just little things like clients for various tasks, free art software (like the Gimp), and things like that.  I also found a program that lets me change the system fonts, since to be honest, the giant Lucida Grande was starting to grate on me just a little after a lifetime of being in total control of my GUI.
Performance:  I have not had a single crash yet.  I think something slowed things down once, and I restarted.  Once.  In a month.  And it was probably my fault.  The system is very fast; during my file transfers from the old computer to the new one, it takes my Dell (2.13 GHz) multiple minutes to copy files it takes my Mac (2.4 GHz) "about a minute" to copy.  Airport wireless worked easily the minute I took my computer out of the box, is really reliable and maintains a really strong connection.  My MBP runs super-quietly, it refuses to heat up (during our frigid Northern winters, this could actually be seen as a con!), DVDs run reasonably quietly, and, well, basically, everything just works, quietly, quickly, and easily.
I can't recommend getting a Mac enough, especially a MBP if you have the extra cash.  It's arguable whether I really did, but for better or worse, I'm glad I shelled out.  
I bought my Mac and AppleCare through Amazon and had no problems, avoided sales tax, and got a good cash-back rebate.