ID: B001G5ZTLS-RSYJEVYO1Q94F-AI1SIKFF2WFAV
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-EOS-5D-Mark-II
ReviewerID: AI1SIKFF2WFAV
ReviewerName: Joe
Date: August 1, 2009
Helpful: 11 of 16
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great camera but light meter and auto-focus could improve.
Content:
When I first heard a 21 megapixel camera would be coming out at a reasonable price (ie. not a ridiculous price like A$12,000.00) I couldn't wait to buy it.  My previous camera was the EOS 1V film camera which had under-exposure problems and suddenly died a year after the warranty expired.  I've had the EOS 5DII for three months now and recently took about 300 garden and landscape photos on a trip to Japan using a 28-70mm zoom.  I had to work quickly because a lot of the sites we visited were very crowded.  The 21 megapixels alone make this camera worth it - being able to zoom in and in and in and still use the full resolution with only a bit of sharpening is really something to behold.  However, like my 1V, this camera isn't perfect and I had to fight it to get my shots exposed correctly and in focus.  
Other people have said that their 5DII's exposures are perfect every time but mine gave inconsistent exposure on nearly every shot I took and it seemed to favour over-exposure rather than under.  If I had used a tripod I could have tried the live view mode with exposure simulation function before shooting - but for hand-held work next time I'll have to autobracket.  None of the exposure modes (Evaluative, Partial, Spot, or Center-weighted metering) seemed to help in my quest to get correct exposure in one shot.  Every photo had to be taken again at least three to four times for me to get the exposure right.  I nearly always had to meter from the brightest part of the scene because of the light meter's tendency to over-expose but with some scenes the bright parts were too bright and I ended up under-exposed.
The only downside to using 21 megapixels is that I became aware of auto-focus problems at full resolution.  All of my lenses were either forward or back-focusing (at least when viewed at full resolution).  Although you can fix this problem with the AF Microadjustment function for dedicated lenses like the 50mm f1.4, it will not work consistently across the entire range of a zoom lens (ie. you might be able to get it perfect for wide-angle shots but it will be out of focus on mid to telephoto shots).  If you like pixel-peeping, want super-sharp focus and have the time, I would recommend that you use this camera with a tripod, set the screen to live view mode and focus manually at full resolution because auto-focus is just not accurate at high resolution.
Another problem revealed by 21 megapixels is camera shake. In my case I found this particulary when using auto-ISO with aperture priority.  Many of my hand-held shots with the 28-70mm zoom in low light were blurry at full resolution because of the minimal shutter speeds chosen by auto-ISO.  The auto-ISO consistently chooses a shutter speed that is a little too slow for the focal length used in my opinion (ie. for my 28-70 f2.8 zoom, the auto-ISO set the shutter speed to 1/70 of a second when the lens was zoomed to 70mm).  I still got camera shake and blurred photos even though theory says this shouldn't happen if the shutter speed matches the focal length of the lens.  I think Canon need to update the auto-ISO on their larger megapixel cameras so that it chooses a slightly faster shutter speed.  I know a lot of landscape photographers will be very critical of auto-ISO but while travelling I thought this would be a good feature to use to help save time as we often had to move quickly, taking pictures indoors and out under varying lighting conditions and this feature would have been useful - I imagine wedding photographers would be interested too.
I think that digital cameras are undergoing a rapid evolution at the moment - on the one hand we have point-and-shoot models and the new "bridge" cameras which meter and auto-focus directly from the sensor and on the other we have the older SLR designs which use a mirror to reflect the image to separate auto-focus and exposure chips - a design which worked well back in the days of the first auto-focussing film cameras but which now seems out of date and ill-prepared to handle the new high resolutions on offer.  Which is why Canon and others have added live view as compensation but it still has a way to go I think.
Anyway, I still think I will have no trouble getting my money's worth out of this camera in the years to come.
** As an update to this review - I took my 5DII to my local Canon service center where they sent if off to check the light meter.  It came back recalibrated and is now exposing correctly and I'm very happy with it.