ID: B0013V6PDG-R1JEJ9DLJS29IY-A38UBIG0BOFJCA
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Indus-Tool-TT-Toasty-Ergonomic-Footrest
ReviewerID: A38UBIG0BOFJCA
ReviewerName: JeepNut
Date: January 7, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great product!
Content:
I started working from home just this year and keep the thermostat at 65 in the winter.  I also wear heavy steel-toe, high-top, leather work boots almost exclusively and found that my toes,feet, and lower legs were getting pretty uncomfortably cold and achy sitting in front of the PC for extended periods.  
Putting the heater on the higher setting keeps my feet and legs perfectly warm right through the boots with no problem.
Lower setting is required if for some reason I have on slippers or just socks.  Too hot to use on high.
I think it's a stretch to think this unit can be stood up and used as a sort of radiant heat source.  Yes it puts off a goodly amount of heat but it isn't a radiant heat source like a hot glowing filament or ceramic tube heater.  You won't feel the heat from 6 feet away like a true radiant heater.  
Had noted complaints about these making a noise and yep, it creaks a little if moved around.  But at my age, so do I.  (LOL)  The plastic creaking is not bothersome or a problem for me at all.
Also noted comments about the switch.  No you can't turn it off/on with your toes, but jeez people.  Take a risk and bend at the waist once in a while.
I love that I can sit my feet on it and can rock the whole platform up and down at will to change the position of my feet and stretch my calves.
All told, I've been using this for a month and really like this little foot rest/heater.
Also when I come in from outside in the snow, I bump the snow off my boots and can sit them on this heater.  They'll be dried out in just a little while and toasty warm when I put them on.  Outstanding.
My only negative comment is that I think it's priced a little high at nearly $70 but it does what I expected it to do and exceedingly well.
I would (and have) recommended this product to family, friends, and anyone who needs to keep feet and legs warm while working at a desk.