ID: B0017YUX5A-R2PU1225CJAEOD-A26C5TYUX8J72Y
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3670-WindTunnel-Anniversary-Canister
ReviewerID: A26C5TYUX8J72Y
ReviewerName: C. Garrison
Date: March 28, 2009
Helpful: 12 of 13
Rating: 1.0
Title: Where has the quality gone?
Content:
I purchased this Hoover canister vacuum because of 1) the Hoover name which I believed was synonymous with 'quality' as well as 2) the evaluation and recommendation by Consumer Reports magazine.  Unfortunately, the vacuum itself is very poor quality.  I've had the vacuum since Halloween (approximately 6 months) and I only use it every other week.  Even given this minimal use, the hose started to split at the handle on use number 5 - it's now being sealed with duct tape.  Additionally, the hose is of such a material that it gets kinks in it (think of a garden hose that you twist the wrong way) while vacuuming -- I've never had this problem before, so I'm not sure if it's because the hose it made of a softer plastic or what; bottom line is that it's a real inconvenience.  The latch holding the top down that contains the vacuum bag came apart in my hand the second time I changed the bag - this too is now being held together with duct tape.  The wheels are so hard and so small that they do not pass over the cord whenever it gets in the way so each time the cord is in the way I have to lift the vacuum over the cord or it leaves plastic scratch marks on my floor: This is not a problem I've ever had before, but I've previously only used Kenmore vacuums, so it's my best guess that the problem is with the type and size of wheels on the Hoover.  The majority of my home has laminate flooring, so I use the hard-floor attachment the most.  The attachment provided by Hoover did nothing more than push the cat food, cereal, etc. across the floor.  I think this is because the bristles are too hard or too long; in any event, I replaced the Hoover floor attachment with my old Kenmore attachment and it now works fine.  On the plus side, Consumer Reports was correct, it does have terrific suction power - the amount of lint and dirt it picked out of my carpets compared to my old Kenmore was significant; their carpet attachment worked well. This vacuum has a 3 year warranty, however, after two emails to Hoover customer service and no replies as to how to take advantage of the warranty or even what the warranty covers, I'm still dependent on duct tape so I can utilize this $300 debacle. Guess I should have kept my Kenmore, which was a much poorer performer, but at least it didn't fall apart within 6 months of use.  I'll never purchase another Hoover product.