ID: B0013FLU96-R1WMOW3ETJYXSJ-A25CV9XKCYE4A8
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB133LL-15-4-inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: A25CV9XKCYE4A8
ReviewerName: Matthew E. Cairns "Matt Cairns"
Date: May 19, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Awesome Notebook!
Content:
I purchased my Macbook Pro about a month ago from Amazon. Best price with a $150 rebate and free shipping with a trial of Amazon Prime. I love it. It is my first Mac and I'm switching over from a gigantic 17" Dell laptop. Funny thing is, this 15.4" screen is so close to the 17" Dell that I'm wondering if the Dell specs are lying. It's so thin and light that I carry it with me everyday, whether I think I am going to need it or not.
I am a Multimedia Developer and this handles everything I throw at it. Photoshop, Illustrator, and Dreamweaver (all CS3) all running at the same time, some simple video work, and lots and lots of web browsing. 
The multi-touch trackpad is fantastic. It is so huge!. On my dell I would always use a mouse, I hated that little useless trackpad, but on this I am totally comfortable sitting on the couch with just the mbp on my lap. I didn't think I would care about the multi-touch gestures, but the two finger scrolling is basically essential for web browsing (the mouse almost seems inconvenient for that now) and the three finger functionality in Safari is very useful, I use to to go through the history. 
I haven't experienced any of the overheating issues a lot of reviews for the older mbp's claim. But I assume that's because of the new cooler chipset. Like many of the reviews, the screen, when closed, is not totally straight. Both sides stick up a little like the screen is warped. It doesn't really bother me, in fact, I don't think I would have noticed if I hadn't read a million reviews that talked about it. I realize that when you pay this much for a laptop, it should be perfect, but everything else makes up for it to me.
The idea to switch from a Windows notebook to a Mac was a rough one for me. I never thought I would do it, but after using Leopard at work(I recently switched jobs from a company using a Windows environment which I managed), I was sold on the functionality and lack of maintenance time. Also the design of the mbp is so comfortable and functional. 
In closing I would say that I highly recommend this notebook to anyone looking for a powerful , and very portable option. I agree the price is higher than a lot of comparable Windows laptops, but to me it's worth it.