ID: B001PII4J0-RPFIXZWHJE1AZ-AJ5U82R6N2SPH
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VGN-P530H-Lifestyle-Processor-G-Sensor
ReviewerID: AJ5U82R6N2SPH
ReviewerName: citizen insane
Date: February 7, 2009
Helpful: 146 of 150
Rating: 5.0
Title: great computer if portability matters
Content:
I've always been a fan of ultraportable computers, and I've owned a few, which include a Motion LS800 tablet, Raon Everun, Vaio TX, Vaio TZ, and an Asus 1000H.  So, my review is based upon my experience with those machines.  The Vaio P, in my opinion, is the ideal combination of portability and functionality, if typing is an integral part of your computing needs.  I bought 2 of them (one for me, one for the wife) as soon as they were announced on the Sony website, and have been using it for about 2 weeks.
PRO'S:
(1) SCREEN RESOLUTION: One issue that I have always had with any ultraportable (outside of the Vaio TX and TZ) has been low screen resolution (e.g. 1028 x 680), which has always lead to lots of scrolling and/or zooming-out.  The resolution on the Vaio P is, in one word, incredible.  EVERY webpage is viewable in its entirety on the screen, as is EVERY document I need to read or edit.  The downside is that text ends up being VERY small on the screen, but still legible to me (I type documents in 10-pt Times New Roman font).  However, there is a personalization option available that allows you to make text/icons 125% larger than normal, which makes things much easier to see.  My wife wears glasses and has trouble reading the text at normal settings, so she uses that mode and it works well for her.
(2) PORTABILITY: Okay, let's not kid ourselves here.  This thing will NOT fit in your shirt/pants pocket (unless you're wearing very baggy cargo pants), but it will fit in a purse or any small satchel.  Weight is negligible, even with the extended-life battery attached.  Portability is a big thing for me in my profession (medical student, MD in a few months), and this machine can easily fit in the pocket of my white coat when I'm on the move.
(3) THE KEYBOARD: I type extensively as part of my profession, and having a usable keyboard is a component that has always been missing from any computer that I could carry on my person.  My Motion tablet and Everun were useful for reading on-the-go, but essentially useless for typing anything beyond a short phrase.  My Vaio TX/TZ have great keyboards (I've typed thousands of pages on them), but the machines themselves are too large to carry on me at all times.  
Let me also take this opportunity to point out that, in comparison to the Asus 1000H, the Vaio P is not just another crappy netbook.  The keyboard on the 1000H, for many reasons, is a low-quality component that definitely shows with heavy use.  Any typing mistakes made with the Vaio P are genuinely my own keystroke mistakes, which was not the case with the Asus (90% of the time, it was just the junky keyboard causing mistakes).  The right-shift key on the Vaio P is truncated, but its placement to the left of the arrow keys makes it a much more natural motion to hit, and something that you can become accustomed to without causing you to alter your typing accuracy on a normal-sized keyboard, which was really just impossible with the 1000H (that had the right shift key placed to the right of the arrow keys).
(4) FUNCTIONALITY: It is a fully-functional PC, capable of running any program you might need to run, given that you're not trying to use this as a gaming PC.  I have installed Windows 7 on my Vaio P, which has made it much more efficient at running multiple programs simultaneously, as well as improving stability.  I would highly recommend this upgrade for anyone purchasing this machine.
CONS:
(1) VISTA: This machine should have come standard with XP.  Vista boot time is horrendously slow, even from hibernation, and installing Windows 7 does not fix this problem.  My other ultraportables running XP were able to return from hibernation in about 20-60 seconds.  The Vaio P takes probably 2-3 minutes.  Maybe I'm a little impatient, but I want my computer to be ON when I turn it on.  The integrated instant-on technology is not terribly useful to me because I generally need to use programs other than Media player or Firefox when I fire my machine up.
(2) NOT USER-UPGRADEABLE: As I understand it, the RAM is soldered to the motherboard and thus not upgradeable.  3 GB of RAM would have made the VAIO P much faster, and would have alleviated problem (1) I described above, and with 3 GB of RAM, Windows 7 would not even be a necessity because it would then be able to run Vista acceptably.
(3) STANDARD BATTERY LIFE: Sony touts 4 hours of life with the standard battery, which is of course a lie.  It's more like 2.5 to 3 hours with screen brightness turned down to 1 or 2 (at which it is still very much readable/viewable), with WiFi on.  I also have the large capacity battery, which takes it to 6.5 to 7 hours at the same settings.  The large capacity battery adds maybe 1 to 1.5 cm of height to the machine, which is something of an eyesore, but I will make the sacrifice because the added battery life is worth more to me than the 0.2 lbs (not noticeable) and increased size.
(4) LACK OF TOUCHPAD: This omission is well-documented in other reviews; the pointing stick does what it is intended to do and it does it well -- however, it does NOT replace the touchpad or a mouse.  Most people are already well-aware of this issue before purchasing the Vaio P.  One thing I would liked to have seen instead is the optical mouse like on the Raon Everun, which is an intuitive and exceptional pointing device that is easier to use than the pointing stick.
*CONCLUSION: the Vaio P is an exceptional device of modern engineering that allows its owners to maintain productivity at a level comparable to that of a laptop while away from home, or when lugging a laptop case is impractical -- thus, I must stress that it is intrinsically a COMPANION PC.  One should not expect this to REPLACE a primary PC, nor should one anticipate using this as their laptop 100% of the time, 24/7, because it simply would be foolish and needlessly uncomfortable to do so.  I would make the analogy of comparing WiFi to a T1 connection -- given the choice and availability, no one would choose WiFi over a T1 connection, but the convenience and mobility of a WiFi connection are advantages that the T1 cannot match.  In the same way, the Vaio P offers unmatched portability and convenience, but its purpose is of a different nature than the primary laptop/desktop -- so, as long as you keep that difference in mind, the Vaio P should enhance your productivity and live up to its tag of being a "lifestyle" PC.