ID: B001CB0RSG-R2LXI9DCA0IT90-ACYL45G2IQMCV
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Player-Wireless-Built-Speaker
ReviewerID: ACYL45G2IQMCV
ReviewerName: George Davis
Date: September 9, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: pretty and fuctional
Content:
I've been a fan of Creative players since I bought the 40GB Zen Xtra Nomad years ago. I've owned several newer, sexier players than that Xtra, but have always gone back to it - its capacity and reliability have more than offset the clunky profile. I still used it up until a few weeks ago, when it was stolen from my car.
For a replacement I wanted a higher-capacity flash memory player with drag-and-drop utility from a brand I was at least familiar with, which meant (to me) going with either the Cowon A3 or the Creative Zen. At the time, the A3 came in $50 more than the Zen, putting it out of the range I wanted to pay for a unit whose primary use would be MP3 playback regardless of its other capabilities.
As to its features... The WiFi IM function is silly at best, besides - I have a blackberry for calling, emailing, SMS and IM. The fact that it has WiFi is cool, and future updates might make it useful but for now... meh.
I can see how watching shows on a PMP would be nice for a commuter, but I'm in a car. I just don't need to watch TV on a player, whether the screen is 2.5 inches or 4 inches. For long trips I can bring my laptop, but really I just don't need video playback with me everywhere I go.
The X-FI sound enhancer does make the tracks sound brighter, but so did the eq function on my old Nomad Xtra.
I really needed a solid music player, and I got one.
Pros:
It plays music well and sounds good doing it. 
I can drag and drop files directly to the player in windows which makes me happy. 
The interface is pretty straightforward, although the shipped directions were somewhat lacking as to how to get started. 
It's small and pretty, and contrary to other users' experiences my big fingers have no problem with the small buttons.
The flash memory means longer battery life and faster track loading times than on HDD players.
Accepts SD cards for removeable storage.
Has a (very small) speaker that manages to not sound like a drive-through window speaker. A little tinny, but serviceable for sure.
Cons:
The software that shipped with it is unintuitive and stopped working on my PC the fourth time I opened it. I'd planned on managing content in Media Monkey anyway, but it's a bummer that I HAVE to.
The power button is inconveniently located on the back of the unit as a recessed slider. Once I added cased the player in a generic latex sleeve the power 'button' became much more difficult to operate.
No auxiliary jack means using the unamplified headphone jack for plugging into car stereos, which means you have to turn the volume up.
SD card content is not integrated into the player's library, making a hassle to play media from the card.
Overall it does exactly what I needed it to, for a price I'm comfortable with. 4/5