ID: B0012Y88QQ-R23GHKQSYJG0A0-AF8SREA2XE7BJ
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: AF8SREA2XE7BJ
ReviewerName: FatOrangeTabby
Date: January 1, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Perfect for the serious hobbyist!
Content:
This is my first DSLR and a Christmas gift to myself.   I did extensive research before I purchased it and my decision to go with the Rebel XSi was mainly for performance, although price did factor in a bit.  In the end I was torn between the XSi and the 40D, which I wanted mainly because it was supposedly better in low light.  I was also afraid I would "outgrow" the XSi over time and would regret not purchasing the more "professional" 40D.   I went to Ritz Camera to handle both of them and decided the 40D was just too big for me, even though I have larger hands.   Plus the 28-135mm kit lens for the 40D was not as much of a wide angle as the kit lens for the Rebel, and with the deal on Amazon right now that gets you the 55-250mm lens for $100 off, it was too good to pass up.  So I bought it and I love it.  So far I haven't done much with manual mode, since I am still learning.  I don't think I will ever outgrow this camera, unless I decide to become a professional photographer and do it for a living.  This camera is easy to learn, perfect size to take everywhere, and Amazon has the best deal around.  This is truly all the camera you need if you just want to get your feet wet in photography.  The auto mode is good enough to get you using the camera until you graduate to the more advanced controls.  You don't even need to understand exposure and white balance, the camera does all the work for you!  One thing I had worried about is that the camera would feel too cheap with the larger lens attached.  It looks and feels just fine.  Canon has a wide selection of accessories and lenses that ensure that I can grow into my new hobby.  None of the other companies seemed to offer as much for a competitive price.  I am in love with my camera and hopefully I will learn to take pictures I will love as well.