ID: B001EQ4BY0-RWGXJXVOZMT7W-AAY1DTFM00BHC
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-50D-Digital-28-135mm-Standard
ReviewerID: AAY1DTFM00BHC
ReviewerName: J. Rios "The Happy Guy"
Date: March 8, 2009
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 4.0
Title: An Informal Review: Canon Eos 50D
Content:
Let me start by stating that the product was loosely packaged by Amazon.com. I recall another customer mentioning the samething. Hopefully, Amazon will read this and review their packaging procedures. However, Canon's foam packaging within the box made sure that nothing happened. Also, everything that was supposed to be included by Canon was. Nothing was missing. I must say, however, that more than not, Amazon does an excellent job of packaging their orders and seeing that the product is delivered on time. 
Before I go any further, I do need to say that I own a Canon Rebel XSI and will from time to time be making a comparison between the 50D and the XSI. I purchased the 50D for approx. $1060 and the XSI for $550. As soon as I placed the battery and a lense on the 50D I could notice a distinct difference in weight and a obvious sense that this camera was built to last a long time, as compared to the lightweight XSI, which has a plastic feel. The 50D also felt very nice and secure in my hands. 
The ergonomics of the 50D was easy to get used to after spending a brief amount of time with it. Most of functions can be easily accessed with the two dials and the buttons are well placed. I've had the camera for a month now and have not accidently pushed or moved anything that has caused the camera to reset itself. However, I do question Canon's decision to use two "on" positions: one for auto/semi-auto and the other for manual. Some of the features which distinguishes the 50D from the XSI deals with the 920,000 mp LCD display, the 1/8,oooth sec. shutter speed which allows you to use a wider aperture in the daylight allowing for a magnificent DOF (depth of field), as well as a better noise reduction system letting the user use a 800 ISO setting indoors while still retaining a nice quality image, whereas the XSI can only be used for up to 400 ISO before seeing a degradation of the image due to noise and its shutter speed only goes to 1/4,000 sec. However, when both cameras are used up to 400 ISO, most of us wouldn't be able to see the difference in image quality to be honest.  
Another important advantage which the 50D has over it's predecessors, as well as cameras by other manufacturers, is it's autofocus.I've been able to quickly focus on objects in dimly lit areas where I wasn't able to with other cameras. Time and time again, I've been very pleased with it's low light focusing capabilities. Not only that, but its autofocus lock has to be one of the best, if not the best, in it's class. Very rarely do I experience any backfocus issues with this camera, whereas with the XSI it's a common problem. What I also enjoy using with this camera is the custom white balance which is necessary from time to time in the studio since various flashes and backgrounds can create situations causing the camera to get off white balance. Canon has made this procedure very easy. You simply take a picture of a neutral grey background, select the custom white balance on the menu, then press the white button on the top of the camera. Now, I have had a few "err" messages which has been noted by other owners, but they have been few. Out of about 40,000 shots so far, I've gotten 3 "err" messages. I simply turn the camera off and detach the battery for approx. 30 sec. and put it back in and turn the camera on and everything is okay. 
There's no question that in regards to build quality, the 50D is a winner. Not only when compared to the XSI, but also with other cameras in its class. It'll definitely out last and be able to withstand the elements better than the XSI. It's abilty to focus quickly in low light situations and hold its focus is without comparison. Not only that, but with the 920,000 mp LCD display, 1/8,000th sec. shutter speed, and improved noise reduction system, professionals and semi-pros alike can make good use of this capable camera. But if you're a beginner, or enthusiast, you may want to consider the XSI and use the $500 you save on memory cards, a good lense, or the 580 EX II flash. Either way, you can't go wrong with the 50D or the XSI.