ID: B001P05NJ2-RLK6OYNPQ09PD-A1BEN9JD2CAEAT
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MC026LL-15-4-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1BEN9JD2CAEAT
ReviewerName: TN_legend
Date: April 1, 2009
Helpful: 12 of 12
Rating: 5.0
Title: They finally converted me - Bye bye Vista
Content:
This is my first Mac - Ok let me start by saying I had been an Anti-Apple for years, I also work in IT and work a lot with Microsoft products still. So you wanna know what happened? Vista happened, as a big ex-Microsoft fan I bought a new laptop(HP) the week vista was released - I am not a new user so I understood there will be bugs and I need to give it time, same thing happened when they released Windows XP. ok after 1 + year of vista:  Man, system was still SLOW, ok no big deal added 2 more GB of memory but its still SLOW, programs not responding, and a security pop up pretty much for everything I tried to do. You click on a short cut and wait and wait and wait and finally it opens now the program is not responding so you have to wait and wait and wait. LIFE IS TOO SHORT!!! Then I heard Microsoft is releasing Windows 7, I was kinda pissed, I just spent $$ to upgrade to vista ultimate and now they are releasing a new windows?? that quick?? Fine so I went to Microsoft.com and get into Windows 7 beta. in the mean time I always owned blackberrys phones and it was the time to upgrade my old phone (blackberry curve), looked at the blackberry storm and man that thing stinks comparing it to the Iphone so I gave up and bought an Iphone - and WOW what a great experience I have had with it, the phone is just great and the APP store alone beats any phone out there - anyways going back to Windows 7 - Ok Microsoft can fool people naming it windows 7 but its Vista with some changes to the interface, same problems , very slow, and more system requirements than vista so basically if I want to experience Windows 7 at its best I have to buy a new laptop with a better graphic card. I then looked at the new Mac OS requirements - Yeah 256 MB of memory, you know what does that mean? it means people who bought an apple in 2000 can run the latest OS while for me to run Windows 7 I have to buy a new laptop that is less than 2 years old, same thing when vista was released couldn't run vista on a 2 years old Dell so had to buy a new laptop. that did it for me - I was done and decided to switch to mac and oh my god what a different experience I have had - It just AMAZING, I love every second of it - the system is so quit its hard to tell its running, it doesn't get hot like HP/dell did, the battery actually last longer than 2 hours. its just what a laptop should be like and the mac experience is as good as it could get, you turn this laptop on and the start time is less than 1 minute - you click on a short cut and the program runs immediately - I can run 9 different programs on it at the same time and not notice any slowness - try that with vista and you will see a nice blue screen + and no need to worry about virus or spyware.
Yes this machine was more expensive but you know what? you really get what you pay for. Go to an Apple store and try a mac if you think about switching, trust me - you won't be sorry and you would never look back