ID: B001FA1FGM-R1U6D1B6MXBDII-A3QQSCV30H7VBP
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Sunbeam-SLP3310-UM-Low-Profile-1500-Watt-Convection
ReviewerID: A3QQSCV30H7VBP
ReviewerName: Satis Superque "SSQ"
Date: January 7, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Sleek, Reliable, Silent
Content:
This unit has changed the way I heat my home in the winter. 
I live in Minnesota in a commercial loft with 12' ceilings, 10' windows and hardwood floors. Heating this place evenly can be a challenge! However, I was pleasantly surprised to find that a few of these heaters were up to the task; they've made all the difference for me. I had been relying on my natural gas forced-air furnace, but the ceiling registers were too high in the air to heat the place evenly. Placing a few of these along the walls areas gave me nice, even heat throughout the apartment and sharply reduced my furnace's workload. 
Even with all the cubic space created by 12' ceilings, a single heater can handle an impressively large area: each unit heats about 250-350 sq ft in my home and it doesn't seem to have a hard time keeping up. The programmable thermostat allows you to toggle-select temperatures from 65-85 (in 5-degree steps), the automatic shut-off timer has settings for 4, 8 and 12 hours. The energy saving feature cycles the wattage to save electricity consumption over a long period of time. This does reduce the heat produced (despite the claim that there is no noticeable difference) but the reduction is slight enough that I consider it a pretty good trade-off.
Outside it's variable "energy saving" mode, the unit uses a continuous 1500 watts and about 12 amps. The unit doesn't seem to be fragile and looks/feels well made. Dependability hasn't been an issue for me at all, and I now have three of these that I've pretty much been running continuously. These units are also pretty light and easy to move: there's even a small hand grip on each end to make it easy to grab. The claim that this is a silent heater is absolutely true - you won't hear it at all except for some soft metallic expansion "pops" from the metal grate as it initially heats up. The size is pretty manageable also. It's about as wide and tall as the boiler drawer beneath a standard oven and is about as thick as a box of Kleenex.
All in all, I've been really pleased with these heaters. For a pretty small investment, they've made my home much more comfortable this winter and haven't been intrusive while doing so.