ID: B001TK538O-RVH95FARXU747-A23JZ91FCEQJ4C
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Single-Gourmet-Coffee-Brewing
ReviewerID: A23JZ91FCEQJ4C
ReviewerName: Nightside
Date: February 12, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: You Will Feel High Class And Snobby
Content:
I purchased this Keurig B66 from Costco for $129.99 in December of 2009. It came with a case of free coffee and a reusable filter. A great deal at the time. After about 1 year of use I believe it is the greatest coffee machine ever. So far so good. And I mean really good (the coffee). I don't bother using those K-cups, I buy whole bean coffee from Costco (Kirkland espresso brand roasted by Starbucks), I grind it myself as needed for a week, and I use the reusable My K-Cup filter. The My K-Cup filters can be purchased at Target for about $15. The ability to control the amount of coffee, water level, and temperature of the water to make one cup will give you the best home made cup of coffee you will ever have. I love the coffee I get at sit down restaurants, I don't know why. I always felt that the high temperature of their coffee machines was the trick. The Keurig lets you set the temperature up to 192 degrees. And the flavor from that setting is great. Here's how it works:
You fill the water tank, put your K-Cup in the holder, push down the handle, put a cup under the nozzle, select the size of cup you want, and press start. The machine will sound like it is grumbling, think of the sound that the stomach of a 500 pound man that is really hungry makes. This is the machine sucking in the water, then it heats it up and starts pouring water through your K-Cup and down into your coffee cup. The machine has 3 cup size selections. Small = 3/4 cup, medium = 1 cup, large =  1 1/4cup. So small = less water and stronger flavor, and large = more water and weaker flavor.
But wait the fun doesn't stop there. You want just hot water? You can do that too. Now put that reusable filter in there empty (to keep hot water from splashing) and you can have a cup of hot water. Have you ever sipped hot water before? It's great, it feels cleansing. Or put some tea bags in there if you want, weirdo. Hot water works for so many things. Instant hot cocoa, broth, cleaning countertops. Coffee is just one the the things this puppy is good for.
The Kicker:
You can tell all your friends about this great machine you have and the wonderful coffee it makes. When you go to their house and taste their lowly coffee you will miss your machine. You won't want to be rude when they offer you coffee, but you will make excuses. You will feel like you don't want to ruin your taste buds. It's just like when you went from drinking tap water to bottled water. You just can't go back can you? When you go to work, and you see that coffee machine there you wonder if you can get the other guys at work to all chip in and get a Keurig for the workplace. You will never want to taste vending machine coffee ever again.
I could go on. The price seems high, but the flavor is there to support it. I have had it for 14 months brewing about 5 cups of coffee every day. As long as it doesn't break the quality of life increase will justify the price. Do yourself a favor and grind your own beans and use the My K-Cup reusable filter, the cost per cup goes to less than 10 cents per cup. The K-Cups you buy cost 35-65 cents per cup. I'm saving probably $50 per month grinding my own coffee and using the filter, which means my machine already paid for itself. 
One more thing, at the high temperature setting this machine makes the Costco coffee I use taste just like the "Cafe Americano" from Starbucks. 
That's it. Bye.