ID: B0012QAXNA-R3VJIY8SFF6Z7O-A1Z7ULE7MNB4V2
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-10-2MP-Digital-Camera-Reduction
ReviewerID: A1Z7ULE7MNB4V2
ReviewerName: Rich D. "Rich D."
Date: August 3, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: A great choice
Content:
My Pentax K200D arrived over 3 weeks ago and I have taken several hundred pictures.  I am a dentist and I use this camera to take portrait and close-up photos almost every day.  My K200D is combined with a ring flash and a Sigma 105 macro lens.  I also bought the 18-55mm lens in case I want to use it outside the office.
It is easy to use and takes beautiful, high resolution pictures that you can crop and enlarge with great results.
I chose this camera over the Sony, Nikon, Canon and Olympus SLR's for several reasons.
I need to take photos quickly and I need to take them all now.  I can't wait for a dead battery to recharge.  The K200D uses AA batteries.  If the rechargeable AA NiMH batteries are dead, I can take them out and temporarily replace them with standard batteries quickly.
The K200D uses an SD card as well as some of my other digital cameras, digital storage devices and my camcorder. My computer has a built-in SD slot so this simplifies my data storage needs.
Since I hand-hold my camera I wanted a camera with image-stabilizing.  The K200D has this feature built into the body, not the lens, so the number of lenses available is greater and the cost of lenses is less and I always have this feature available.
If you read reviews on Amazon or other Web pages you may see criticism regarding brightness or color issues with the K200D.  I haven't found this to be a problem.  If you don't agree with the engineers at Pentax who calibrated the camera you should be aware there are many simple adjustments available to change the brightness or color settings from the Fn menu, Custom Image options and you can have photos "Your Way" from then on.
Since I shoot in M or Manual mode I use the Auto Bracketing feature all the time. All I have to do is push the Shutter button 3 times and one of the exposures will work. The first shot is what I think should work, the 2nd is darker and the 3rd is lighter.
The K200D can take excellent photos for beginners in the simplest mode and can be highly adjustable for the demanding seasoned photographer.  I use the camera for work because it is a fine tool and has the features I need, but all digital SLRs are big and heavy for me.  I am no longer interested going on vacation carrying 3 or 4 lbs of camera, batteries and lens over my shoulder waiting for that Kodak moment.  For travel and vacation I want small cameras that fit in a purse or pocket.  My 2 favorites that I have used for years are the Nikon 8400, and when I may take pictures in water, the Pentax W30.  Both cameras take video with sound.
Be sure to avoid shady camera websites with prices significantly below Amazon.  For the highest confidence I use Amazon.