ID: B0015UVV0W-R25157RI3Z6AIK-AF14M8YA41PSD
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Vornado-EH1-0032-28-TouchStone-Full-Room-Electric
ReviewerID: AF14M8YA41PSD
ReviewerName: Brit "Bill"
Date: November 16, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Finally foud the heater that warms up my family room!
Content:
My house has floor heating downstairs which is very expensive to run. We spend our time mainly in the family room but only have one Thermostat for the whole of downstairs. To save on energy costs this winter I decided to look for a space heater. Over the last 2 weeks I've tried 5 different heaters and was not satisfied with any of them until I brought home the Vornado 500! 
The cons I would say are it's fairly expensive and has a couple of design faults with the display. The display light is very bright and you will probably need to cover the display if you plan to use it while sleeping. Also, the display is on the top of the heater. Having a remote is kind of pointless if you can't see what you're changing. 
The pros are is it heats up the room well, has plenty of safety features, is very quiet, is not made of cheap material and is also backed by a 2 year warranty.
Every other heater I tried would trip the circuit breaker on high setting even if the only other things on were the TV and Satellite Box. The Vornado does not. I've tried switcing all the electrical items that use the same circuit on at the same time and it still doesn't trip it. I guess that's becasue the Vornado will reduce its heat level and fan speed once it get's close to your desired temperature. Whatever the reason it's great not to lose power in the middle of a movie and having to go into the freezing cold garage to reset the fuses.
I also tried this heater in one of the rooms in the house that just had the weatherstripping removed. It did not do a good job. Once I replaced the weatherstripping it heated up the whole room. 
So in summary I highly recommend this heater as a solution for the lack of having zone heating. If your room has a draft fix that first and then this will totally be worth the money!