ID: B0019FJM7W-R1JX93UJCEJY2M-A1IULAIPKXVJ7V
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-E520-Digital-Camera-Stabilization
ReviewerID: A1IULAIPKXVJ7V
ReviewerName: John A. Milliner "konfuzd1"
Date: January 10, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: money well spent
Content:
i read countless reviews in PC Photo and other photography magazines before deciding to purchase the e-520.  the most common complaint was confusing menus, which have never been a problem for me.  in reality, nearly every setting can be changed with the menu button, but pressing the ok will superimpose your settings over the lcd image, allowing you to see and change them on the fly.  a third option is using the buttons on the camera itself to change settings instantly.  i found this arrangement intuitive rather than confusing.  all reviews i read seemed to agree that this is a lot of camera for the money.  and i've shot some amazing pictures with it already.  i am especially impressed with its low-noise, long-exposure low light shooting ability, and the olumpus' command of color and white balance is nothing short of breathtaking.  want to warm up your shot?  use the manual white balance setting and shoot a light blue piece of paper instead of a white one to give the glow of sunset to a mid-day shot.  i'm even getting some awesome infra-red shots through a hoya r72 filter, with exposures up to 15 seconds.  i got the fl36r wireless electronic flash a couple weeks after the camera, and i'm glad i did.  a few nights later, a train derailed in front of my house, blocking the highway for hours.  that flash lit the scene like daylight out to well over 50 feet, giving very high detail and contrast with shockingly little noise.  i got the only night shots and they've been very popular with neighbors and newspapers alike!  (there were no injuries and no damage except to 11 rail cars and some track, if you were wondering)  i will have some of my work posted at [...].  could you get better shots with a Canon Rebel or the new Nikon?  maybe.  but i have nothing to complain about with respect to the e-520, and i now have an excellent flash, reflector, remote control, extra batteries, four filters and a bag for about what i would have spent on one of those other cameras.  my advice:  if you're reading this, stop thinking about it and buy one!  then get some toys to go with it and have fun with your photography!