ID: B001F5ST84-ROBYEYCAJEK6D-A14F8SNAL7IF6G
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Optimus-H-4438-14-Inch-Energy-Saving-Oscillating
ReviewerID: A14F8SNAL7IF6G
ReviewerName: Mark Mueller
Date: February 4, 2010
Helpful: 5 of 8
Rating: 1.0
Title: A review by a REAL consumer who bought it!
Content:
First of all, I bought this product based on reviews from Amazon. I purchased it, I THOUGHT from Amazon, but it was actually some 3'rd party that sells through Amazon so there goes my return. 
On to the review. well, what can I say. 
1: Shipping was supposed to be free, yet it was not. I overlooked this and got it anyway.
2. The product was NOT packaged in ANY WAY other than the original DISPLAY box it came in. Yes, there was no corrugated cardboard outer box, no shipping box of any kind.
3. This thing is made of the flimsiest, cheapest plastic known to man at this time. Further research into even crappier material is underway now and may reveal a yet unknown lower quality plastic that they can use in the future. 
4. The remote control did not work.
5. The "anti-tip" protection is SO TOUCHY that if you even giggle next to it the thing turns off for minutes. I can't position it even 1 cm with the kiddie-est of kid gloves without it going off. The slightest jiggle and you have to wait, with no manual override option to turn it back on.
6. The heat output, unless you have it on 1,200 watt and are 2 feet away, is ridiculously low. These other reviewers must be in California and need to heat the 75 degree air up to 78 when the sun goes behind a cloud or something. I am in Wisconsin and purchased this for an English basement office (1/2 basement with windows) it is woefully inadequate even at the aforementioned distance.
My wife saw this and asked what I paid for it. When I said "$60" she said, "I would have guessed $20. $60 is a rip-off!" I agree. If, IF I can return this wonderful product back to Ho Chi Minh, or whoever Amazon is in cahoots with to sell this garbage... it will be on the next rickshaw back to them. Then I'm sure I can fight endlessly for a refund.