ID: B001EDVU6K-R2IBF0U27YZRJ4-A12YV1GETL6HD3
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Vornado-EH1-0036-46-Heater-TVH600-Vo
ReviewerID: A12YV1GETL6HD3
ReviewerName: Tim Deruwebh "homogenius@heterosapiens"
Date: January 15, 2010
Helpful: 0 of 2
Rating: 1.0
Title: Toasty heater, but trips carbon monoxide alarm
Content:
I have a 180 sq. ft. RV that has an integrated forced air propane heating system. I was looking for an electric alternative heating source for when I am plugged into 120 Volt electricity source. I settled on this model of the Vornado heater based upon the reviews at Amazon.
The first night I used it, it was 42 degrees outside - and app. 52 degrees inside the RV, which has double paned windows and heavy insulating window shades. I was somewhat disappointed at the forced heat being propelled by what I perceived as an underpowered fan. I have a vornado fan, and the volume of air being generated by the heater unit was app. 90% less tan that of the stand alone fan.
Nevertheless, the unit warmed the ambient temperature of the interior space to a comfortable degree within a relatively short amount of time - app. 20 minutes.
Then the carbon monoxide alarm in my RV was set off. I shut off the vornado heater, ventilated the RV (with ice cold air), and decided to try again the next day, when the ambient outside temperature was 64 degrees. Within a short period of time, the carbon monoxide alarm was again set off. It seems that using this vornado forced air heater in an RV for the minimal amount of time needed to raise the indoor temperature to a comfortable setting generates an unhealthy amount of carbon monoxide.
Having used the propane fueled ducted heat in the RV without tripping any alarms, I conclude that the carbon monoxide is not a product of heating the interior surfaces/finishes of the RV. I googled this model of forced air vornado heater and carbon monoxide, and found no relevant hits. Perhaps it is simply not able to be used inside an RV.
I am returning the item to Amazon, and will replace it with a different brand of forced air electric heater. Only then will I be able to tell whether carbon monoxide production is a feature of this class of product, or just the vornado.
I would advise anyone buying this product to take the precaution of also purchasing a cheap carbon monoxide alarm.