ID: B00108IHKQ-R1FLWORBZOY8K-AM4W9WZ5NR5FY
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VGN-CR320E-14-1-inch-Processor-Premium
ReviewerID: AM4W9WZ5NR5FY
ReviewerName: Mazhar Waqar
Date: February 8, 2008
Helpful: 66 of 67
Rating: 5.0
Title: One Amazing Vaio
Content:
I bought the Sony Vaio CR320E/W after weeks of research. It is light, fast, and stylish (and cheap?). I needed something portable for college so I went with the 14" and I love it. The screen is really bright and glossy. The laptop itself weighs nothing compared to my dad's 15" Dell laptop. The build quality is very sturdy and the gloss white finish doesn't show fingerprints as bad as one would think. It does not have a latch to keep it closed but rather it relies on the tension of the spring. The spring works fine and has never been an issue. The Core2Duo processor is great for all around use. It isn't the fastest dual-core out there, but it is more than enough to get the job done for the average consumer. The bluetooth worked great and instantly connected to my phone. The camera is one of the neatest features. Besides taking regular photos and videos, it also has mac-like effects that can distort the image in weird ways and do random flips and rotations of the image. Another mac-like thing was the keyboard. The keyboard has a slight gap in between each key and they are all rounded a little. The keys have the just right amount of "roughness" to make good contact with your fingers. The speakers on this laptop are not extraordinarily load but they are not weak by any means. I said it was cheap because the older version of this laptop (vgn-cr220e/w) which doesn't have bluetooth and a slower/smaller hard drive is actually more expensive on amazon.com than this one. I personally saved a little more money and picked this laptop up from Best Buy after instant rebate.
There were 3 cons that I found with this laptop. First of all, it comes loaded with Sony bloatware programs. I spent the first 2-3 hours with this laptop just uninstalling the software. All they do is slow down the computer and most of them are very repetitive when compared to Windows programs (Sony Home Video Creator v. Windows Movie Maker). The other issue with this laptop was the battery life. Even though it is advertised as 2-4.5 hours, I just wanted to bring that up because it typically gets around 3-4 hours, which is a little bit too short for me. The third issue was that it comes with a weak graphics card. It is fine for general use, but it probably would have a little difficulty keeping up with the newest games. All in all, this vaio is a great buy.