ID: B001ET5U92-R19MRS5Z4SXTHF-A3F0GYTLF2HYO6
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D90-12-3MP-Digital-Body
ReviewerID: A3F0GYTLF2HYO6
ReviewerName: Steven Bassett "Steve"
Date: August 27, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Nikon D90 Digital SLR Camera
Content:
Flat out...the D90 is one excellent camera! Nikon has done themselves proud with a camera that is now in a market that is full of tough competition. A while ago when the D80 first came out Nikon was way ahead of the pack because there wasn't much competition. Things have changed signifigantly and Nikon has kept pace with the demand. The camera has several preprogrammed "scene" modes like most digital cameras, such as "Portrait", "Landscape", "Micro", "Sports" and "Night" There isn't anything unusual about the modes of course, it's the quality of the image that you get from each of those modes that dazzles. The camera has a multitude of features including custom programming modes so you can adjust the camera to take a particular scene the way YOU want instead of the way the manufacturer wants.
The camera is built very well, solid and it feels great in your hands. It's the kind of camera you can take with you to a football game and not worry about someone damaging it with a slight bump. It comes in body only or with several "kit" lenses. The most common being the 18-105mm Zoom lens with Vibration Reduction. The lens is of good quality although you could buy a better one by avoiding the kit lens.
The camera is a bit overpriced. Not outrageously so but Nikon could have shaved a few dollars off. 
The bottom line is the D90 even with a slightly inflated price is an excellent camera that takes quality images even under the most demanding conditions. If you are inexperienced at photography but want a quality camera set the D90 to "auto" and point and shoot. The camera will do the work and the images will be consistantly perfect. Once you have built up some experience you can program the camera to set your mood. 
As for "Cons" I have just one. It has a movie mode with 24 FPS (frames per second). The movie mode is not very good if that's an important feature to you. When panning you get "shutter lag" which causes image attributes such as straight lines (the sides of a building for example) to get "skewed." If you are using it for occasional movies and avoid action scenes you won't mind but football games are out. The D90 was the first DSLR to have movie mode so I suppose one can excuse Nikon as they were the first on the block to try it. Of course you don't buy a DSLR for movies so it's kind of a "white elephant" Take it as a nice feature to play with but your camera is for taking photographs not movies. 
I can't recommend this camera enough. It simply takes great photgraphs. That's the job of a camera and the D90 does it very well.