ID: B0012Y88QQ-R2JFDXYTSL14P-A3N2CCKAQCNJOZ
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A3N2CCKAQCNJOZ
ReviewerName: M. Wilcox "Work Hard. Play Harder."
Date: January 13, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Canon XSi is an incredible camera
Content:
This camera has capabilities I never knew I needed. One favorite feature is the multiple-shot timer release. You can program the camera to take up to 10 consecutive photos after counting down from 10. This is a great feature for family portraits, where normally I would get up and run to the camera five or six times to re-release the shutter. 
The image quality is great. Even when zoomed in, everything is crisp and beautiful. Navigating almost everything is a snap, though on some menus it only allows for vertical navigation even when there are rows and columns, which is frustrating.
The biggest annoyance I have with this camera is that after you take a picture or series of pictures, the camera previews the last photo taken on the VERY impressive screen. However, the firmware isn't in full playback mode. In other words, if you press left or right during the preview period, it brings up menus instead of other pictures you've taken. I would love to have the option to just have it in full playback mode instead, but it is not an option the firmware allows. I think it's rare that I'd rather be changing my settings to set up for the next shot instead of reviewing the work I've already done. And clearing the image is a simple matter of depressing the shutter halfway, so my question is, why isn't the option available to allow for fully automatic playback after image capture? I may be alone on this one, but I think there at least ought to be a choice.
That is my only real gripe, though. It is intuitive, user friendly and has plenty of little touches that make it a noticeably nicer SLR. The on-screen info is invaluable for shooting manual. It really makes it pretty easy to get good shots quickly using the manual drive. Overall, I love this camera.Canon Digital Rebel XSi 12.2 MP Digital SLR Camera with EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS Lens (Black)