ID: B001CBKJGG-R11W6WTKXDBRM2-A2Q5HW2HAK6U1X
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-XS-Digital-18-55mm-Black
ReviewerID: A2Q5HW2HAK6U1X
ReviewerName: N. Clark "Yo, Teach!"
Date: January 8, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Outstanding DSLR for the price
Content:
This camera is an excellent choice for those who are taking their first steps into serious (SLR) photography. The "basic" zones give comfortable starting point for new photographers; selecting one of these puts the camera in full automatic mode, akin to a point-and-shoot camera.
The XS also has plenty of room for a new photographer to grow with 4 pseudo-manual modes, and full manual. Each of these modes, particularly manual, allows for much greater artistic expression and control than the automatic modes.
Another nice feature of the XS is the extremely low noise when using higher ISO values. I tend to keep my camera in ISO100, but when I've needed to venture to ISO800 or ISO1600, I've found very little need to post-process for noise. The XS works surprisingly well in low-light settings.
By virtue of being a Canon camera, it comes with E-TTL 2, which gives superb control of a hotshoe speedlight. The XS, like other Canon cameras, also has excellent lens support. When I was camera shopping, I brought along some old 35mm lenses just to see if they would work - one Nikon (from 1977) and one Canon (from 1979). The Nikon (which happened to be a D90) refused to work with my 28-200mm Vivitar lens. The XS, however, worked fine; it accepted the fact that I was willing to work with a fully manual lens. That compatibility can be very useful if you have some old lenses around, assuming you're willing to manually set aperture and focus.
The XS is very, very light. I'm not sure whether this is a good thing or a bad thing. SLR cameras are inherently bulkier and heavier than point-and-shoot; the super-light plastic shell on the XS leads me to believe that the case will most likely crack before the mirror gets knocked out of alignment. I do not recommend traveling with this camera without a good camera bag - this should be one of the first accessories you buy (along with a UV filter).
I do all of my photography in RAW, and use Adobe Lightroom and Photoshop CS4 for my post-processing, so I can't comment on the Canon software bundle.
Do not let these reviews sway you between cameras; rather use them as a starting point for going to the store to get a feel for the camera. Hold the camera, see how it feels in your hand, how it performs, etc and then decide what fits your needs best. I've found, at least in the case of the XS, that you can get it for 10%-15% less than at a retail store.
This camera has done nothing but impress me since I purchased it two months, and several thousand shots ago. The only other DSLR cameras I found in the "amateur" category that I found somewhat comparable were the Nikon D60/D90s and the Canon XTi.