ID: B001D8S9E2-R1KVHHEDTRQ1X8-ASJ0MKRFZC47B
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB466LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: ASJ0MKRFZC47B
ReviewerName: Mermaid
Date: November 23, 2008
Helpful: 22 of 25
Rating: 5.0
Title: First time Mac user loves the Macbook
Content:
My husband decided a laptop computer would be my anniversary/Christmas gift this year and he suggested I take a look at the Macbook because of all the photography and other artistic things I like to do on the computer.
I read the reviews on Amazon and it seemed to me either the reviewer loved it and made no mention of "firewire" - something I had never heard of - or the reviewer gave negative reviews and was mentioning "firewire" or the lack thereof in the new MacBook.
After my online research we went to our local Apple store to talk to a MacNerd in person and see the MacBook live and in action.  The techy was super knowledgeable, didn't talk techy, and helped me figure out exactly what I needed from my computer.  He didn't upsell me at all.  I asked him about this "firewire" and essentially it boiled down to the fact that I didn't care or need firewire as all it was is that previous Macs had it so that you could hook your computer up to another Mac with this technology and basically move files/applications from one computer to another without a hitch.  Given that I didn't have another Mac nor had I ever executed such a task, I wasn't worried about the lack of firewire.
I ended up with what I called the "entry level" Macbook...the one with 160GB, as I already have a 500 GB external hard drive that is fortunately compatible with both my PC desktop and my new Mac (a MyBook).  I got a free printer/scanner all-in-one (after rebate), and I also purchased the Microsoft Word, PowerPoint, Excel software as I just couldn't let go of that.  I felt that the iPhoto software that comes with the MacBook was sufficient and if for some reason I needed more I could just use the photo imaging software that I have on my desktop (or always upgrade to Aperature if I felt the need).  I also got a cool, snazzy little laptop bag.  I was nervous that I would not acclimate to the touchpad, so we also purchased a wireless mouse.  After everything was said in done, we spent $1800, but will be getting a $100 rebate check in the mail for the printer/scanner, so it will end up being $1700.
Since yesterday I've fiddled around and played with the new features and have been exploring in my MacBook.  I haven't even opened my wireless mouse packaging yet --- my first frustration was not properly figuring out how to scroll with my touchpad or "right click" - a quick search on Apple's website under the Support menu helped me figure those out.  I might end up returning the wireless mouse after all.
The battery so far is good and the first charge went pretty fast!
I've had zero problems with the display being too reflective.  I've used it with a dark wall behind me as well as a big sliding glass door with lots of natural light and again, there was no problem at all.  I haven't had to adjust my color/contrast settings at all, so whatever it was set to "out of the box" has been perfect.  The only time there is a glare from the natural light was when I stopped using the MacBook a few minutes and it went "idle" as the screen darkens a bit which reflected the light a lot.  As soon as I began using it again, though, the brightness went right back to normal and I saw perfectly.
My guilty pleasure right now is playing with the built in camera and putting funky backgrounds behind me where I get to pretend I'm at a beach, in Paris, or up floating with some clouds in the sky!  My kids get a kick out of sitting on my lap in front of the MacBook and turning the background into a roller coaster.  The background actually moves so it appears we're sitting in a roller coaster seat!
Granted I've had my new toy for less than 24 hours, but I couldn't be happier with the purchase!