ID: B00128SQDC-R1TJDLS67CY4UY-A32BM3NKHB7P3L
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G
ReviewerID: A32BM3NKHB7P3L
ReviewerName: B. Morton
Date: August 31, 2007
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great entry level SLR
Content:
Starting a photography business is hard enough, you need equipment that is economical and gives results.  For being a small sensor/small format camera this is easily one of the best to get started out on. I wouldn't recommend a novice wanting to start a business get anything more than the D80 for starters except maybe a D40x for a backup.  Plenty of Jpg power for enlargements. The menu takes a little getting used to but once you understand where the settings are and the buttons that make the changes for you are at it becomes easier with each use.  The DX lenses have motors in them and the auto focus is pretty fast.  It can lag a bit on some action shots but that may depend on the lens you have on the camera at the time.  The kit lens that I got goes up to 135mm but only f5 at the lowest so getting the right light can be tricky, especially indoors.  I recommend the SB600 or SB800 speedlights which can be used remotely on a stand or bracket off the camera and a lens that goes down to about f2 or so.  Being that the camera is digital you can get over 500 jpgs with a 2gig card set at jpg normal, less for fine, raw, etc.  This is a great camera to begin with, learn from, accesorize and grow from.  Nikon just released some new models you can work up to as well.  There are many complaints about the manual and software but in reality the manual does its job.  I have had no problems finding anything I need to in the manual or the manual that came with my SB600 speedlight.  And if you need software that bad to fix your pictures then you're not taking good pics to begin with.  I'm all for photoshopping some bad lighting or adding in some effects or a background but some people get irritated at the smallest things.  These people need to brush up on their reading comprehension and get over themselves.  If you are that nitpickty about a book then you're not out shooting enough pictures!  Get over it already and love this camera like you know you should!  11 points of focus, bracketing, in eyepiece framing, it goes on and on...for the value it's loaded with professional features.  Hey...I may not have all the terminlogy down but I'm on the right track with this camera and some classes in photography.  Get your D80 on and start shooting today!