ID: B001ENOZY4-RM9HJBVF8XW56-A359Q7TXFYRGMF
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D90-Digital-18-105mm-3-5-5-6G
ReviewerID: A359Q7TXFYRGMF
ReviewerName: M. Kato "MK"
Date: April 8, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Good High ISO Performance
Content:
The photos I took in 2005 of my first son's graduation from college were a bit blurry.  I used a Panasonic Lumix DMC-FZ20 camera with an f2.8 36-432mm (35mm equivalent) lens, but that camera has a maximum ISO setting of 400.  The FZ20's photo information indicated that the shutter speeds for the blurry photos were slow -- 1/8 and 1/15 -- too slow for the 400mm zoom lens setting and moving subjects.  My second son was going to graduate from that same college and the ceremony was going to be an evening ceremony and at the same poorly lighted location (I believe that, after paying for four years of college, parents should be entitled to having the graduation ceremony in a well-lighted location and close enough access to take photos of their children during the ceremony without fast, heavy telephoto lenses, but, apparently, my belief is not shared by those in positions to do something about it).  So I concluded that I needed a camera with a bigger image sensor that had better low-light, high-ISO performance.  The full-size sensor digital SLRs were too expensive for me, so I checked on the cameras with smaller sensors.  After reviewing camera reviews of various SLRs on low-light, high-ISO performance, I concluded that my choices were limited to Canon or Nikon digital SLRs with the APS-C sensors.  I have Canon PowerShot compact digital cameras that I really like, so I was leaning towards a Canon Rebel SLR.  However, when I went to stores and actually handled the cameras, the grips of the bigger Canon SLRs (which were, unfortunately, too heavy and too expensive for me) and of the Nikon SLRs just seemed to be more comfortable to me than the smaller Rebel models (although I liked the lighter weight of the Rebel models compared to the bigger SLRs).
Another difference that I noticed was that the Canon SLRs required the pop-up flash to be activated to provide low-light focus assistance, whereas the Nikon SLRs had a focus-assist light on the body of the camera itself.  Because I usually have an external flash in the flash shoe in low-light situations, but I was not sure which flash I would eventually be using (I was thinking of using one of my older flashes that would not have the connection to the cameras for all of the flash features), I thought that the focus-assist light on the body of the camera was preferable.  When the Nikon D90 was announced, it seemed to have the features that I wanted, such as a good prism viewfinder and LCD panel, and be close to the size and price I could seriously consider.  Because my compact digital cameras could all take short video clips (I have used those cameras for short videos of my sons playing Nintendo Wii drums, my grandchildren playing, Christmas decoration lights, fireworks, and the Old Faithful Geyser erupting, but I am basically a still photographer, not a videographer), I thought that an SLR that could also take videos would be handy to have.  But, of course, the goal was to get the best low-light, high-ISO performance for the money, so I waited for some reviews to come out.  I had been regularly checking the reviews at the Digital Camera Resource Page and the posted examples of photos at high-ISO settings.  After I read in September 2008 the Digital Camera Resource Page review of the Nikon D90, I pretty much made up my mind that the Nikon D90 was the digital SLR I was going to get.  I also decided to get the 18-105mm kit lens, because the reviews seemed to indicate that it was fairly good across its range and the lens's focal-length range came closer to the coverage of my Canon PowerShot cameras than did the smaller 18-55mm kit lens.  However, with Christmas expenses coming up, I had to wait to order one, so I just put the Nikon D90 with the kit lens in my Amazon.com cart and monitored the price.
Because I needed time to familiarize myself with the D90 before my son's graduation scheduled for May 2009, I ordered the D90 with the 18-105mm kit lens (with free Super Saver Shipping) in January 2009.  There are a lot of settings that could be made, so I reviewed the detailed suggestions made by Ken Rockwell and set what I thought would be correct for my photography.  In March 2009, I purchased a Tamron AF 70-200mm f2.8 Di LD IF Macro Lens for use during the graduation ceremony scheduled in May 2009.  During the graduation ceremony, with my D90 set at ISOs of 3200 and 4000 and at shutter speeds of about 1/500 and with the Tamron lens at f2.8 and at the equivalent of 300mm on my D90, I was able to get the photos I wanted.  I later switched to the 18-105mm lens and put on a Nikon SB-600 flash (I ultimately decided to get a new flash to go with the D90 rather than try to use one of my old flashes) to take the post-ceremony photos (at ISO 200) of my son with family and friends.
Since then, the Nikon D90 with the 18-105mm lens and the SB-600 flash has become my main equipment for bigger office and family events (I still carry and use my Canon PowerShots for many photos, because the D90 is not my everyday carry camera).  I have the Nikon active D-lighting on to record things in shadows, but I have noticed that some photos have the highlights blown.  I have used the Camera Raw option to open JPEGs in Adobe Photoshop Elements 6 to reduce exposure and to recover some detail in the highlights.  To reduce the overexposure of highlights, I set the compensation reduction to -.3, figuring that I can always lighten and brighten what is recorded, if needed, but I would not be able to do anything about blown highlights if the highlight detail is not there.  Most of my photos have been taken indoors with the flash and I have set the Auto ISO setting with top of ISO 3200, which has produced some unexpected photos (of what was in the background of what I focused on).  Because the D90 is my first digital SLR, I have been enjoying the speed of a digital SLR when I am trying to photograph fleeting expressions of my grandchildren and other things that require fast repeat shots -- my PowerShots are slow in comparison, so one problem has been that when I use my PowerShots instead of my D90, I am sometimes pressing the shutter button on my PowerShots when the cameras are not yet ready to take another photo.  After taking over 3,800 photos so far, I have not had any problem with the D90.  It served the purpose for which I originally bought it and it has served me well since then in photographing office and family parties and other events.  People seem to be favorably impressed with the photos taken with the D90, so I am very happy with my decision to buy it.