ID: B001K3JPRA-R17N3VTUYEIOGO-A3M78642QA852V
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-E30-Digital-Stabilization-Body
ReviewerID: A3M78642QA852V
ReviewerName: R. Sarma "rssarma"
Date: January 5, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: More like an E-3 MKII
Content:
I started out with an E-510, went to the 520, then took a couple of steps back and started using the E-1 and the E-500, then added the E-3 to my bag which saw about 6 months use, but all the jumping around came to an end the day I bought the E-30. After exactly two months, I've sold all my old Olympus gear (except the E-1) and I'm happy to say that I'm very satisfied with my purchase of the E-30.
The E-30 is not just an E-3 packed into a smaller body, it's much more! The AF system seems vastly improved over the E-3, the LCD screen is slightly better, IQ at higher ISOs is a lot more usable as there is no banding and the overall size is a lot more manageable.
Let me start with some Pros:
1. AF system is a huge upgrade, the E-30 seems to have an AF system which is much more sure footed and accurate than the E-3. The biggest plus is the ability to perform micro adjustment on the AF. The Sigma 30mm f/1.4 EX DC HSM Four Thirds Lens for Olympus and Panasonic Digital Cameras is one of my favourite lenses which unfortunately had AF problems on every 4/3s body, but with the E-30, I've dialled in an AF adjustment and it works flawlessly! In the S-T-D mode the AF is simply spectacular, locking focus in very, very low light! In short, the AF is a huge upgrade from the E-3.
2. IQ is an improvement over all other 4/3s bodies. In fact the IQ of the E-30 came closes to what I was used to seeing from the E-1; accurate white balance and excellent colours with lovely saturation and just the right amount of contrast. The sharpening is a touch too much for my taste, but keeping it at -1 makes the images look a lot nicer with lesser noise. Noise is slightly on the higher side, but with the noise filter at either "Low" or the manufacturer recommended "Standard" this is a complete non-issue.
3. High ISO performance is by far the best I've seen on any 4/3s body. I fearlessly use the E-30 at ISO 1600 with no issues whatsoever. In fact I've made several 8x10 and 13x19 prints of ISO 1600 JPEGs straight from the camera and not once have I seen any issues. With the E-3, E-510/520 I almost always saw banding in the shadows, no such thing with the E-30.
4. Dynamic Range is a toss-up, but has definitely seen some improvement. At ISO 200, the images show a lot more highlight detail than ISO 100. Olympus hasn't documented it's ISO implementation very well and as a result this may leave many users confused. When used in "Auto ISO" the lower range starts from ISO 200, whereas when selecting the ISO manually, ISO 100 is available. Based on certain tests, I noticed that highlights definitely retain more detail at ISO 200, but shadows are a tad noisier. Basically, if you want ultra-clean noise free images, continue to shoot at ISO 100 with careful metering and you'll be happy. If a scene has too much DR, ISO 200 may help a little, but don't expect miracles.
5. Lastly, metering seems very conservative just like the E-3, this is a good thing, but I'd definitely recommend keeping an eye on the histograms. Overall, the metering is very predictable.
Now that we're done with the Pros, here are some Cons:
1. Build quality is nice, but nowhere near E-3 standards, considering that the E-30 is priced so close to the E-3, I was hoping for better. For example, the pop-up flash in my unit actually has some play. The shutter however seems to be the same as the E-3 which I really like; its quiet and has very little lag and non of the whining and moaning that you get on the E-620, 520 and similar.
2. There is a problem with the AF point illumination light spilling into it's neighbouring points; I spoke with Olympus regarding this and they confirmed that this was a known issue with no solution at this point. The best thing to do is make sure your eye is dead-centre on the OVF (thank you very much!).
3. Images lack the biting detail that I was used to seeing from previous Olympus cameras, especially at higher ISOs. As a result, at times they do require a greater degree of sharpening.
4. Image noise is so far the highest amongst all 4/3 DSLRs, while this is only an issue when pixel peeping, it's definitely a bigger issue if you plan to print very large or if you plan to crop heavily.
5. I'm not very crazy about the button placement. The combination button to enable bracketing isn't great and I find the placement of the ON/OFF switch to be very counter-intuitive, although this is just a very small matter of getting used to. Also, the 4 buttons on the bottom of the LCD are very difficult to get to especially if you're using the camera with gloves.
Overall, the E-30 is a fine camera and houses a lot of improvements that could have essentially been used in an E-3 MKII. I'm glad to have bought this camera and will definitely recommend this to anyone considering it.I will keep my eyes open for the next big thing, but until then I will be using this camera with a lot of pleasure!