ID: B001QCWQNK-RX1CW6ALR84WR-A1C1U3RRUZ138Z
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB881LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1C1U3RRUZ138Z
ReviewerName: Laurencia7 "Tech Head"
Date: March 27, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Plug, Play, Go
Content:
If you want a quality product, with ease, accessibility, and performance then get yourself a Mac. Been struggling through the web universe for the past 8 years with an old reliable PC. And yes, while the two different it is very easy to get used to a Mac interface.
No need to worry about different language, or ease into a Mac lifestyle. I just took it out of the box, filled in the data in the intro and poof! mine! No hassle of ever installing driver discs for printers, and etc. As long as the interface allows for Mac, it works! hands down. Very few products now are made without Macs in mind, mice, printers, and software. 
Con: I would not buy the "Mighty Mouse" mouse that goes with this Macbook. It got terrible reviews and seems to have broken on many clients. But any Logitech mouse or others work just fine, don't even need to tell the Book it is plugged in, just use it.
Con: have to buy separately a case to carry the device in, which is ok considering there are so many styles out there. I recommend a sling bag from Belkin, very simple, and dozens of uses. 
Pro: a Definite pro is the typing ease. It is so simple to type, it makes me jealous I ever lived with such harsh keys before. 
Software: the software is installed already and is superb. Without fail they make editing, and music composer a breeze. Garage Band is a def must have. 
Webcam: The web camera is amazingly high in pixels and takes great still shots through its "Photobooth" software. Or just having a good chat with family over the internet. It makes all other cameras seem less. 
iLife is a great bundle that comes with the device, I would recommend PC users to install a Microsoft Word (Mac friendly) software just to adjust. TextEdit lacks certain desired capabilities.
 
So if you want something you can carry, it is just simple and works, buy this Macbook or another one. You won't be sorry.
Buy it , or be deprived.