ID: B001G8Y2WW-RDZJ1VA7RGE5Z-A1POL88EFGB3WF
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-650BC-Thermal-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1POL88EFGB3WF
ReviewerName: Seth Kendall
Date: March 14, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 1.0
Title: Very poorly designed
Content:
Cuisinart DGB-650BC Grind-and-Brew Thermal 10-Cup Automatic Coffeemaker, Brushed Metal
I received this coffee maker as a gift, and was very disappointed with it, so much so that I returned it after using it for about 2 weeks. I kept trying to convince myself that I was doing something wrong, but in the end its just not a very good design.
The grinder portion of the machine is terrible. No matter what you do, lots of the ground coffee ends up stuck in the grinder mechanism and never makes it to the coffee basket, resulting in a lot of waste and stale coffee. There's also a small screen between the grinder and the coffee basket, which has to be cleaned with each use if you want any chance of the ground coffee making it to the basket. About a third of the time I tried making coffee with this machine the carafe ended up full of lukewarm brown water, due to the coffee never making it to the basket. 
The thermal carafe works well only when completely filled. I tried pre-warming the carafe with hot water, as suggested, and unless I made a full pot, the coffee got cold within an hour. I found myself really wishing that the machine's hot plate would stay on lnger than just the brewing process. It also pours very awkwardly: its almost impossible to get the last cup out of the carafe without taking off the lid and holding it completely upside down. Even when full, it doesn't pour well at all. And the "pause" function just doesn't work at all; even after the machine stops brewing, the coffee basket leaks each time you pull the carafe out. 
It took me a little while to really understand that to use this machine properly, you have to do a lot of cleaning and taking apart between each pot of coffee. There are 5 separate pieces that have to come apart and be washed and dried before you can make another pot of coffee. 
Stay away from this one.