ID: B001D0E4CQ-R3ICLCNYXOHQES-A288ADHGC6DG36
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-120-Internet-Media-Tablet
ReviewerID: A288ADHGC6DG36
ReviewerName: Almost Departed "Bekl"
Date: March 24, 2009
Helpful: 9 of 10
Rating: 4.0
Title: Awesome Player!
Content:
I just upgraded from the Creative Zen W 30 GB to the Archos 5 and let me tell you this player is the one to beat if only Archos takes the time to listen to its customers.
I have tried the IPod Touch and Decided to go for the Archos 5 and these are the reasons:
1) Price and Size (60 GB of size: the dock lets you use an external hard drive via its USB port and thus expending your player's size tremendously)
2) The screen is wide enough so that a guy like me with chubby fingers can actually type with ease. (Something you cannot do with the IPod Touch)
3) It plays all kinds of video formats so that you spend more type enjoying your player instead of converting video to Apple's oppressive and restrictive video and audio formats: frankly who wants to be bothered. 
4) Battery Charge is competitive with other players: no issue there.
5) Widgets: I love them as they are easy to use and handy.
6) I like the fact that I can create my Paylists on my PC without the need of a special software like the Creative Media Explorer or Itunes: this will save you a lot of time.
7) I can play DVD files on my Player without conversion: I do not know if any other player in the market that can do that and let me tell the quality is fabulous.
8) I agree with many people that Archos should include the add-ons free of charge and I think this would boost it sales if they do it, but once installed this player is limitless.
9) Some people complained of the fact that the player is a fingerprint magnet, I agree, but most people do buy a screen protector and skin for their players anyway: this is the same case with the IPOD TOUCH.
10) Like most people I think the price tag is a bit high, I bought mine used for $250 Canadian: I think that if this player is sold for 300 (with the mini dock and plug-in included) there will be a lot of people out there who would think twice before buying any other player.
11) I have not had any experience with the Archos Customer Service, but I suggest that you buy an extended warranty for this player (if you buy it from a reputable seller) if this is an important issue for you: I bought the player used I did not have problems with so far.
12) Wi-Fi connections is better than that of the IPod Touch and this of course depends on the type of router you have at home or the office.
While most other manufacturers are sleeping on the job Archos and Apple are the only companies producing players with exceptional hardware and  software.
I highly recommend both the Archos 5 and the IPod Touch.