ID: B001FA1NEG-RYZQEWTHS86YD-A1EB2U0CM8W50V
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Generation-Previous-Model
ReviewerID: A1EB2U0CM8W50V
ReviewerName: Darlene Umpacan Rana "darSTAR"
Date: July 1, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Can't be without it
Content:
I've been with iPods ever since they first came out. From the Mini to all of the other Nano generations, I own  them all. ;)
This has been by far my favorite of them all and is the most aethestically pleasing to my eye (I'd recommend a case to protect it.)
Pros +
Sleek, stylish, comfortable in my hand.. The aluminum casing looks and feels great. The back click wheel really brings out the beauty in it.
To top it off, the screen? Clear, crisp, rich in color.
All that memory!
Not really in the way at the gym. It's small, very light, and because of its shape.. It's fairly comfortable in my pocket.
All the things in the previous Nanos, just more advanced.. And more colors to choose from.
Cons -
Apple changed the inner workings.. What used to charge your iPods now do not for the new generations and your iPod is always more than happy to tell you that on the screen. For someone who has been with them for years now, it's quite the hassle for all your accessories to suddenly be unable to charge their products.
Genius isn't all that great, but that's something they can always keep working on.
Oh, and battery life?? Wish it was better, still not enough for someone like me - who is always on the move.
Now to address everything else..
Yeah, I don't really use the shake to shuffle - in my opinion, it's a little gimmicky but I do find it useful at times (though not often, it took a little bit to get used to as you have to switch it to hold before you put it anywhere so it doesn't change your song but you could always switch it off.) When you shake to shuffle (which requires quite a shake SOMETIMES,) I find that it doesn't shuffle your current playlist but your whole song library.
Like I said, I don't use it much but I DO like the little games it has now 'cause of it.
Oh, and yes you can turn off the rotate to cover flow. There's an option to turn that off as well so no problem there for me. It's a pretty little addition, though not exactly efficient in my opinion.
Anyway, that's my two cents on it. Great product, all in all.
Should you drop your old Nano for this one? .. Well, I did. A little extra space never hurts, I like to watch movies and videos on it every now and then. Image is clear, yes, the screen is small.. But it IS the Nano. It's SUPPOSED to be. It's the perfect size for me and can even fit in my small jeans and that says a lot.