ID: B001MS6NOG-RDIZLN8GWR9CJ-A3NLCDFZKK5NRF
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VGN-FW373J-16-4-Inch-Processor-Blu-ray
ReviewerID: A3NLCDFZKK5NRF
ReviewerName: Matthew Horney
Date: April 24, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very nice and very satisfied!
Content:
I researched laptops last year and put purchasing one off once again because I couldn't decided on a PC or Mac.  In 2009 I decided to make the plunge.  I looked at LED screens, Macs, solid state drives,....this video card that video card, shiny vs. none shiny, small vs. sorta small, and the list goes on and on.  I knew I wanted something that looked intelligent, was designed well, had the latest or close to the latest technology, and performed well with graphic apps.  I, like most, could not justify the cost of a Mac.  For what I could get with this Sony I could not even come close with Mac.  
So after many back and forths reading PC vs. Mac articles and listening to friends justifications....I went with the Sony.  It's design is very clean and well thought out.  The keyboard is fantastic!  The HD is amazing and the speed of the machine is perfect.  It runs large Photoshop and Illustrator files with ease although a 100 mb sketch-up model for work seem to drag a bit.  Not sure why at this point.  Programs open instantly and boot up is fast...very fast.  It will even tell you current boot time.  
The Sony preinstalled software is ok...similar to the PS3.  I don't use it since I have iTunes and all my images sorted by my Canon Software.  I do like Sony's System utility software...nice.  Windows Vista has never been an issue for me, even on my older machine.  Confirmations are annoying but I got used to it. 
Battery life was a big research topic for me and this will eat the life right out of them.  I keep it on battery saver when unplugged.  Movies will suck the juice so I am looking to get a second battery for trips.  Otherwise I can manage and have not found this not to be a negative at all.  This size is great...not too big and not too small.  The weight may not be good for those traveling a lot.  For trips to the local coffee house its does just fine.  I did get the neoprene case....nice for tossing in my cycling bag.
Overall its great.  No crashes...no complaints.  Just a workhorse and fun computer.  Recommend to those searching and considering all the things I did.  I am a perfectionist when it comes to making choices and I am satisfied with this one.
One more thing....I do wish it had a backlit keyboard but its not 100% necessary...  But it would be nice.
Hope this helps or eases the process of getting a new machine.  Happy shopping!
Cheers!