ID: B001RNNQQE-R2PB9TTVYPPL3D-A25PNT9PY1RGRU
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-755-FlavorBrew-Coffeemaker-Thermal
ReviewerID: A25PNT9PY1RGRU
ReviewerName: cfg
Date: October 23, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: nice surprise
Content:
I dreaded replacing our failing coffee maker, they all have their problems, but this was a very pleasant surprise. I like the charcoal filter, supposedly helps to remove the chlorine from the tap water, and the coffee does taste excellent- I like really strong coffee. The flow rate is nice, a little quick maybe, but the funnel basket concentrates the flavor better than the flat basket filter of my old unit. It comes with a gold plated permanent filter, but unless you grind the coffee exactly right the smaller grinds will flow through into the pot- not a big deal if your like french press type coffee, but I just use paper filters instead. This is a stainless (not glass-lined) thermal carafe but there is a hot plate that stays on while the coffee is brewing so the coffee is very hot. Thought that was a very nice touch, there's no need to preheat the carafe. The coffee stays hot- not scalding, but hot- for 3-4 hours easily.
Not sure I get the bad reviews about grounds everywhere if not seating the basket or pot just right. The basket clicks into place and it can only go in one way so that seems impossible to mess up, not matter how groggy. I get up at 4 am and haven't screwed up yet, very user friendly. The 'showerhead' is in the center of the reservoir lid, so when it's lowered it's exactly in the center of the basket. Same with the carafe- there is a circle protrusion on the bottom of the pot that keys onto the top of the warming plate, so that is seated very positively. When the lid is on the pot it is always in the pour and brew position, so that can't ever be an issue. The beep is somewhat loud if standing right next to it, but very hard to hear in the back rooms of my very small house.
Excellent unit, very pleased with it.