ID: B001REHCZY-R5GG7SCFU35VE-A6FNRI2G54SNA
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-SDC740B-SpaceMaker-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A6FNRI2G54SNA
ReviewerName: Denise Whatley
Date: October 7, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: AFTER installation, I love it
Content:
Overall, as indicated by the 5 stars, I am very please with the function and looks of this unit.
INSTALLATION:
Most of the other reviewers mentioned the problems with installation difficulties and I would only add that this has been true of all the Black and Decker under counter coffemakers (I have owned likely everyone since inception).  This one was supposed to guarantee that at least 2 screw holes would fit if you had an existing unit but maybe I missed a style along the way because it needed 4 new holes in addition to adding extra spacers.  
I could not find the manual initially (hidden under some of the packing) but did notice an arrow on the top bracket near a slot.  Using a flat head screwdriver I inserted it feeling for something to push (I had read the reviews about the difficulty getting this off).  Finding nothing I finally twisted the screwdriver in the direction of the arrow and the plate magically the plate popped off ;>).  Later, I saw that they mention this procedure in the manual.  
COFFEE POT: (YES!)
I would subtract a star for the installation but finally getting a coffee pot that pours ALL the coffee into the cup rather than always putting some on the counter added back the star.  They stopped trying to make a spout in the glass design of the pot and opted to put the spout on the plastic cover.  Not one drop on the counter yet, a first for any of the coffee makers I have owned, regardless of brand.
They must have corrected the problems with the sneak a cup feature because my pot fits in the well snuggly and I have not had any problems with it not opening the water flow valve.
UNDERCOUNTER FUNCTIONALITY:
The pot section hangs down slightly further than the full box of the one I replaced so my small grill no longer fits under it well but the design does give much more height to the counter on the left side.
The water heating section does not seem to put out the steam of my other units and should stop damaging my cabinet door.  This may mean the water is not quite as hot but the coffee brews well.
WISH LIST:
The water bucket and coffee ground basket need handles redesigned for ease of carrying but are useable. It would seem that a finger well would have been easy to design into both without giving up esthetics.  
I miss the lighted clock but at least there is a light to indicate that it is set up for the AM.
I keep hoping they will put a back-up battery in the clock for power outages so everything does not need resetting after a thunderstorm.
LOOKS:
Excellent and again, make up for any negatives or missing items I have mentioned.  I am glad they finally went back to making a coffee maker in black.  White plastic and coffee guarantees obvious staining no matter how much I cleaned the last unit.