ID: B001EQ0HAW-R2V79UX9VXRNZV-A13DLUNC8BYKEU
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-120-Video-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A13DLUNC8BYKEU
ReviewerName: Philip J. Graham
Date: February 11, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: A Solid MP3 Player (So far)
Content:
When my girlfriend dropped by old Sansa in a puddle, it was time to go shopping for a new MP3 player.  I immediately dismissed buying an IPod because most people I know have had a lot of trouble with them.  I decided to give the Zune a try.  For the money, it has a lot of good features.  The radio is clear, the software works well, it supports multiple formats (like podcasts, audio books, video, etc) in addition to the various music formats.  I also enjoy playing the games on it.  Because its hard drive is so large, I can store my extensive music and audio book collection on it.  I do a lot of overseas traveling, so this is a real plus for me.  The player feels very durable except for the lock button, which is really weak.  The wi-fi availability is also a nice thing to have.  I like being able to tag songs that I hear on the radio for later download and purchase.  I also like that you can play checkers on the Zune with your friend (assuming they have a zune as well).
Although I am happy with the Zune overall, there is still plenty of room for improvement.  I don't like the fact that you can't manually tune the radio.  This means that if there is a station that kind of comes in, but with a little bit of static, it won't show up on your Zune radio.  I also feel like the battery drains quickly.  If you play games or watch videos on the Zune, the battery dies very fast.  Speaking of the battery, I hate it when companies make devices where the battery can't easily be changed.  This is the case with the Zune.  My biggest gripe was that the ear buds that come with Zune are just about worthless.  You would think that when you shell out $220 plus for a digital music player, it would come with a descent set of head phones.  Wrong.  These ear buds fall out constantly.  I don't expect awesome sound quality on a set of standard headphones, but I do expect them to stay in my ear while simply walking around.  In the cold weather, these ear buds simply don't work.  The wires connecting the ear pieces to the player stiffen dramatically in the cold.  With no flexibility in the wires, the buds just fell right out.
In all, I would recommend this as the best large-size digital music player that I have seen.  My girlfriend has a similarly sized IPod and we both agree that the Zune is a better product (which also costs less).