ID: B001G5ZTMM-RIPSW48SDWNZ-A1ZXLI6VPYKP1A
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-EOS-5D-Mark-II
ReviewerID: A1ZXLI6VPYKP1A
ReviewerName: Fisherman Dan
Date: March 5, 2010
Helpful: 22 of 22
Rating: 5.0
Title: Finally Upgraded - Glad I Did
Content:
I've been looking at the Canon 5D Mark II for a long time - since before it came out in late 2008.  It's taken a while but I finally pulled the trigger.
My first Canon SLR was the EOS 650 - the autofocus SLR that "started it all".  Then in early 2000's I got the Digital Rebel, then an XTi and quickly after that the Canon 40D.  
I've liked all the digital SLR's I've used to date but only the 40D reminded me of the build quality and "heft" that my original 650 had.  And although you get used to it, the 1.6 crop factor of the sensor size is really a big difference on the wide-angle side.
Over time I also upgraded my lenses to the 17-40 F4L, the 24-105 F4L, the 70-200 F2.8L and the 100-300 F4.5-5.6L - with IS in all but the 17-40.
I guess I'd call myself an "advanced amateur".  My usual approach to photography is to compose a good shot and then crop later to a better composition to get my "keepers".  
With the 40D and my outfit of lenses I can pretty much do it all - especially on the telephoto side.  However, I noticed that when you crop significantly a 10.1MP image, the end result can have significantly reduced image quality.
So - I determined a little more megapixels to work with would be helpful.
Next, the 40D's max ISO is 1600 but at 800 the noise can be a bit of a distraction.  The simple solution is to stay below 800 but that requires a flash or photos of stationary objects in darker settings.
So - I determined that something with better light sensitivity would be helpful.
I noticed that some of my lenses were sharper than others on the 40D.  I sent the body to Canon with my 24-105 to get the focusing "matched" and the results were good.  But it was a one-size fits all solution.
So - I determined that something that offered lens microadjustment would be helpful.
I watched and waited patiently for the "brouhaha" of enthusiam for the 5D MarkII to settle down as I'm not the sort of sucker that pays more than MSRP for anything.  I knew my time would come, I'd get my 5DMarkII - even if my wife said no.  Now the MSRP is $200 less!
Finally, along comes this blasted Canon 7D to totally ruin my plan.  It solves my megapixel issue, it solves my ISO issue, it has lens microadjustment (as does the 50D) it even offers an advanced video capability and "new and improved" autofocusing system.  And it's $800+ less expensive.  What a quandary.... now what?
With much consternation and angst I debated over and over the 7D or 5DMII.  On the one hand, on the other had - you know the drill.  Is the 5DMII worth it?  
I put my 17-40 lens on the 40D and then on my EOS650 and like I said - the difference is huge between a full frame and cropped sensor.  I'm not a video-enthusiast and I'm not really sure what the big deal is about "24p" vs "30p" so that wasn't too important.   I believe with autofocusing - "it's not the arrow, it's the indian" and unless something's out of wack your images should be focused or you're making a mistake.  
So, I took the plunge and purchased the 5D Mark II.
It's awesome.
The look and feel is very EOS-like.  Not too different than my 40D - probably a little better in fact.  I like the Creative Auto mode a lot and the menu on the LCD is great.
The ISO range is totally worth it.  I take shots routinely at 3200 and they look like 400 on the 40D (very minimal noise / graininess).  When I use a flash - the results are amazing.
I microadjusted the camera for all the lenses I own, and as expected the settings for each were slightly different.  Now my images are spot-on, unless I screw up (again - it's not the arrow, it's the indian).
To top it all off - Canon is coming out with a firmware update to add 24p (et al) to the 5DMark II.
The Live-view mode is much simpler than on the 40D and focusing is very easy.
The 21 Megapixels is way more than I really need but when I crop my images I get great results so I'm delighted there.  I delete images I don't like so my storage constraints are limited.
Finally - the full-frame sensor gives me all the image my considerable lens investment can provide and offers me opportunity on the wide angle side that the 7D couldn't.  It's a big deal and not to be discounted (although you can get an EFS 10-22 to make up for it on a cropped body).
I'm sure the 7D is an awesome camera too and I bet the autofocus system is an improvement.  However - if you're like me, you've got great lenses, you've been patiently waiting for the hysteria to calm down, and you're ready to change camera bodies then I totally recommend going full frame and getting the 5D Mark II.