ID: B001TWPVN4-R8TJB05A52UZS-A1P2G9327JJ1BP
Category: AirConditioners
Product: 000-Portable-Conditioner-Dual-Hose
ReviewerID: A1P2G9327JJ1BP
ReviewerName: J. lynch "neveronmykneesagain"
Date: April 25, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Is cooling my 1100 sq ft condo so far
Content:
I researched this product like CRAZY!! My 1972 Central A/C compressor went out and we are approaching summer in FL. There was no fixing it and replacing the compressor would cost around $2k, maybe more because we live in a condo and our outside unit is on the roof. We are not staying in this house long and so I did not want to drop that kind of money in it. Our association does not allow window units and, while I wouldn't necessarily let that stop me, our windows were not suitable for a heavy unit. 
Let me tell you how happy I am that I got this unit. I was expecting it to just cool our upstairs and that I would need to get another one for the downstairs. I'm no scientist (actually, I am sort of... Bachelor of Science, LOL) but I did remember that hot air rises, so having the unit upstairs and set at a low temperature while also having an oscilating fan in front of it (I keep it anywhere from 72-74) I have been able to cool the whole house!! Another plus is that I now have a portable A/C that I can take with me when I move. If I need it to cool down the garage, I can. If I need it to cool down a camper, I can. Love it!
If you are looking to buy a portable, definitely get a two hose unit. I will save you time and tell you that I have read TONS of complaints about every one-hose unit out there. This one cools as close to how a window A/C would and I don't need to have it hanging out a window, just the vent. BTW, I had the unit in my room and cooling 20 minutes after I got it in the door. While I was sweating, getting it out of the box and installed (hey, I'm a big guy, whaddaya want?) my hallway thermometer was 83 degrees. An hour after I started it, we were at 77!! 
If anything goes wrong I will update but for now, this Florida boy is glad he can sleep in a cool house. 
P.S. The seller (Compact Appliance) was very quick!! I ordered it on a Monday morning around 5am EST and it was waiting for me at my door that Thursday afternoon with standard shipping.