ID: B0019FJM7W-RJ6E6I9FIM3P7-A263SKV018OVT7
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-E520-Digital-Camera-Stabilization
ReviewerID: A263SKV018OVT7
ReviewerName: T. Port
Date: March 13, 2009
Helpful: 12 of 12
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent Camera, Best Value for the Money
Content:
First, it is my opinion that the Olympus e520 is absolutely the best DSLR camera you will find in its price class. Sure, there are more expensive models from other brands that are better. But for the money, you will not find a more capable camera.
Also, it is my opinion that there are three components that determine the quality of a photograph.
1) the camera. 2) the lens, and 3) the photographer's ability to use the camera properly.
So keep those things in mind when deciding which camera to buy, you need a good lens too, and you will need to learn how to use the camera's various features to get the best photos.
This is my first DSLR camera. I spent two months researching various DSLR cameras and read many reviews. And I admit, at first I did not seriously consider Olympus as an option because it is not as popular as the two leading brands (Nikon and Canon). Most of my friends and relatives have one of those two brands so I figured they were the best. But I was overwhelmed by the many conflicting reviews I read about Nikon and Canon models. It seems there are many opinionated and passionate brand loyalists out there who love their choice of camera. Which is perfectly fine except for their biased bashing of the other brands.
This made it very difficult for me to make an objective comparison between the brands. I had almost given up on my quest for the right DSLR for my needs until I talked with another friend who has the Olympus e510. He let me try it out and I found it to be very impressive and very easy to use. So I read as many reviews about the Olympus cameras that I could find and it turns out that  nearly all those who own an Olympus love it and wouldn't trade it for any of the other brands. So, for reasons I'll explain below, I finally made the purchase and I soon found my new e520 was on the door step. Although the camera is not perfect (neither are the Canon or Nikon cameras), it did not disappoint and I am very satisfied with my choice.
     +++ Pros +++
+ Excellent construction quality. This camera feels very substantial, sturdy and tough.
+ Excellent layout of buttons, and controls. The buttons and dials are easy to find and seem natural and comfortable when using them while taking photos.
+ The LCD screen is the biggest in its class if camera.
+ Very easy to use. I'm a first time DSLR user and it was very easy for me to learn how to use almost all of the cameras features. For those who prefer auto, no worries, it takes very excellent photos in auto mode. For those who want to customize the heck of the settings, no worries either, the Olympus e520 has more manually setting ability than any of the competition in the same price range. And changing the manual settings is so easy and quick with the super control panel that only Olympus has.
+ Image stabilization built into the camera body. This is a big deal. For crystal clear photos you really do need image stabilization. Especially if using telephoto lenses. The difference between Olympus and the other brands is Olympus puts image stabilization into the camera body while the competition puts it into the lenses. Lenses with image stabilization cost more to manufacture than lenses without. Therefore, with the Olympus system you will get more lens for the money since you won't  be paying for the image stabilization.
+ Unlike the competition, the entire Olympus system is designed from the ground up for digital photography using the new four thirds standard. This makes their telephoto lenses more capable and much less expensive. And Olympus has a very large selection of lenses to suite your needs.
+ The e520 has the fastest continuous shooting speed in its price range and received best scores for color accuracy in independent reviews. It also has the best dust reduction system in the market.
+ The kit lens takes very excellent photos and is a more capable lens than the competition's kit lenses. This is because the four thirds system provides higher telephoto ability in the same size lens plus image stabilization is in the camera. Watch out for the other brands' kit lenses. Many of them do not have image stabilization.
+ There are many more pros worth mentioning but not enough room! 
     --- Cons ---
- No camera is perfect. And for the entry level price I would expect some cons. Don't worry, this camera takes awesome photos in almost any circumstance. And it also takes awesome photos in poor lighting situations as long as you use the flash. But, if you're looking to take flashless photos in dim light by using a high ISO setting, you may be disappointed by the noise. The image sensor in the Olympus camera is smaller than other DSLRs and therefore is more susceptible to noise at high ISO settings. ISO 100 and 200 have no noise problems in any light condition. ISO 400 has an acceptable amount of noise. Anything 800 or above will produce way too much noise in my opinion. However, this is not a big issue for me because I use a flash when taking photos in dim light. Or,  for night time scene shots, I just slow the shutter speed down rather than adjust the ISO settings. I do sometimes use ISO 400 with acceptable results.
- Generally, the auto focus works great. However, in dim light, the auto focus has to use the flash to help it focus. It does this by rapidly flickering the flash like a strobe light for a half a second while it focuses. This can be annoying and distracting to the subject you are photographing. Other brands use a red led to assist in dim light focusing. Not sure why Olympus didn't do the same because the strobe light thing is really annoying. To solve this problem, I bought a hot shoe flash which uses the red led to assist focusing. I like this much better.
In conclusion, you can't go wrong with Olympus. They manufacture very high quality cameras and lenses with many features that outshine the competition in the same price range. Too many people tell me their Canon or Nikon is better but then they paid two, three, or four hundred dollars more for their setup. Of course I would expect it to be better. Olympus also has higher end cameras that are more capable than the e520. But for my needs, the e520 is the best value.