ID: B001FSKDWG-R2I4SR4DRZSHL7-AXZBAC9JGXY7Z
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Panasonic-DMC-G1-Digital-3-5-5-6-Black
ReviewerID: AXZBAC9JGXY7Z
ReviewerName: Angelo Sellers
Date: July 9, 2009
Helpful: 12 of 12
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great Camera
Content:
While it does have its quirks, this is a great camera.  I'm not the most skilled photographer, yet, and it's nice to play with the manual settings or to be lazy and let the camera's auto settings do the work, and they do a decent job.  
Pro's:
------
Small size - The Olympus E-420 (smallest SLR) is 32.6% larger than the G1.  The Rebel is 60% larger than the G1.  
Excellent Photo Quality - Having come from ultra zoom camera that was incapable of taking a quality picture over ISO 100, it is a dream to be able to shoot pictures at ISO 800 and be able to get print quality photos.  I wouldn't go above 800, though.  
Ability to capture raw - While it's expected in a camera this price, it's still nice to work with RAW files and have the ability to manipulate the unprocessed image - including white balance problems.
Cons - each of these is very minor
-----
Auto WB - This needs some work in certain lighting conditions
Burst Mode - Even if you have picture review turned off, it is forced on if you're in burst mode.  This makes it next to impossible to capture a moving subject in burst.  You're better off to rapidly fire off individual shots.  **This is the #1 thing I would like to see addressed in a firmware update**
ISO above 800 gets real noisy real fast.
Bulb Mode - is capped at 4 minutes.  This is fine unless you want to do star trails.
Limited # of lenses - hey, it's a new system and as such there aren't going to be a lot of lenses right now.  They will be coming, but it will take time.  If you want access to a ton of lenses right now, you may want to consider another system or at least be prepared to buy an adapter that will allow you to use Olympus 4/3 lenses or Leica M lenses.  
-------------------------------------------
All in all, I love this camera.  I'm just trying to figure out how I'm going to talk the wife into allowing me to purchase the 45-200mm lense.