ID: B001FB5XIC-R1P4SLH567CFCS-A19MR4V7RRE7Z
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-TCH8590ER-34-Inch-Ceramic-Heater
ReviewerID: A19MR4V7RRE7Z
ReviewerName: J. A. Wilkerson
Date: January 28, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 7
Rating: 1.0
Title: DeLonghi Tower Heater
Content:
The heater arrived in excellent condition, packed in the heater box inside Amazon packing.  Opening the box I got two unpleasant surprises.  First, there is some assembly required.  The base comes in two parts and you will need a phillips head screwdriver.  This is not a big deal but unexpected to have any assembly.  Second, the heater feels to be made of very cheap, thin plastic.  Upon assembly, I placed the heater and turned it on.  Nothing happened  The problem was with the cheap tip-over control.  The base of the heater is open and a single strip of plastic hangs down, and when the plastic strip drops too low, the heater assumes it is tipping over and cuts off.  What happened in my case is that the spot where I placed the heater was slightly concave, but enough that the heater refused to turn on.  Just be aware of this if you have any problems getting the heater to start.  There is a nice remote but unfortunately the description in Amazon is wrong.  The remote does NOT control all functions.  The timer cannot be controlled by the remote, which is very odd as there is certainly space on the remote for another button.  The timer can be set to start up to 24 hours before turning on or stop 24 hours after being turned on in half hour increments.  Notice I said start or stop.  You cannot turn the heater off.  It is either on or in "standby" mode, which uses a small amount of current.  If you want the heater to be totally off, you must unplug it.  The display on the heater is easily readable but there is another problem.  The display only shows the max set temperature, NOT the current temperature.  According to DeLonghi, this is as designed.  In other words you will only see one temperature displayed.  The remote offers several other options.  There is a button that controls oscillation.  At times the oscillation is very noisy.  There is a power button that controls minimum or maximum power.  The unit puts out heat equivalent to similar heaters, i.e., 1500 watts max.  There is a temperature control which sets the desired cutoff temperature.  This does not seem to be very accurate but is not a big issue with me.  There is a mode setting, which provides 3 options: heater, fan only, and a no freeze mode which holds the temperature at 45 F.  Their explanation is to use this last mode in rooms which otherwise might experience frozen pipes but not enough heat is needed for people comfort.  Lastly, there is a button that controls "On" or "Standby".  A battery for the remote is included.  Overall, I am very disappointed with this heater and would not have made the purchase if I had know all these details.  Some of these features may not be important to you so please make your own, careful decision.