ID: B0012Y89JW-R3DOPKWFT4XMPC-A2SYCKV9A2SE0F
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-XSI-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A2SYCKV9A2SE0F
ReviewerName: Abhinav Agarwal
Date: September 15, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Excellent camera; a few negs
Content:
This is an excellent digital SLR oveall, and (almost) everything positive that others have written about it is correct in my opinion. The controls are intuitive, and after a little practice you can use them without having to take your eye off the viewfinder - the ISO control, the exposure compensation, the viewfinder is familiar to any Canon SLR user, etc... The grip is comfortable, and provides good 'grip'. The LCD panel is bright, and displays all relevant information in a readable, usable manner. The mode dial allows you to switch on the camera with a gentle flick to the wheel, and the camera itself switches on almost instantaneously. 
The battery, when fully charged, can take almost a thousand shots before requiring a recharge. Even when using the flash, I was able to take more than a hundred shots before the indicator dipped to the low marker.
Since this camera can accept both regular and EF-S lenses, there is a white marker on the body for aligning the EF-S lenses when mounting them on the body, and a red marker for the regular lenses. Nice!
The negatives, in my opinion:
- Flash photography results, especially indoors, and with the built-in flash, are not too good. You will have to experiment a lot to get acceptably good results. This may be an issue with most cameras when using the built-in flash, and you may need to go in for an external flash. So this is not necessarily a negative against the Canon XSi, but more an issue with most cameras I think.
- The tripod socket at the bottom has the camera's serial number next to it. So, after screwing and un-screwing the tripod head a few times to the camera body, you are very likely to end up scratching off the serial number completely. Also, you will need to swivel the tripod head to open the battery cover. This is also bad for the serial number sticker. This may not matter much, unless you need to get the camera repaired. Bummer. In any case, this is not optimal design.
- If you switch on the "Long Exposure Noise Reduction" custom setting on, it can take 5, 10 seconds or longer before you are able to take another photo. So be aware of that. This depends on the length of the exposure itself. For 30 second exposures, this post-processing can take almost as long.
- The exposure compensation indicator still does not go beyond showing 2 f-stops in either direction. This is supposed to be on account of a patent issue, but it still reduces usability somewhat.
On the whole, an excellent camera, but not without its flaws.