ID: B00176AX6W-R3IJND9H4G6B0M-A130YN8T37O833
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Red
ReviewerID: A130YN8T37O833
ReviewerName: Always Samsung "ravereviews"
Date: November 13, 2007
Helpful: 235 of 310
Rating: 5.0
Title: Dangerously Close to PERFECTION!
Content:
Dangerously Close to PERFECTION!
Dangerously Close to PERFECTION! I always wanted to buy the original Zune but didn't bother due to the fact it was only 30GB and at that time I was already on my 80GB iPod. When I was on my 80GB I was already on the borderline of a shortage in GB so I was ecstatic when Apple released the 160GB. I have so much videos and that's what takes up all my memory space. After purchasing the 160GB I realized how disappointed I was. I hated the new cheap plastic cover they used; the screen didn't get any bigger, the user interface was spotty and slow (because it takes time to load album art), the scroll wheel was AWFUL and very unresponsive. In short, I was disappointed. The only plus was the memory space. Now the only way I would have enjoyed the iPod was if the 160GB was released in the body of the iPod touch. Instead Apple decided to only utilize 8GB or 16GB as some sort of test drive before the bigger drives get released. I called everywhere in Manhattan yesterday for the Zune & nobody had it. They either had it or their 6 dollar an hour minimum wage employee refused to check if the item was in stock when I called. Anyways I called Circuit City and or course the 18 year old kid that answered said they had tons of Zune's & that he unloaded it off the truck himself the night before the release date but at the same time he refused to put one on hold for me. I go out of my way to go to Brooklyn and of course when I got there they didn't have any. Lucky for me while I was at the store a customer was returning his Zune because he hated the user interface and he thought the device was too big so he exchanged it for an iPod Nano classic. Ok let's get to device. Overall I am very pleased with the device. Like I stated it's dangerously close to perfection, but not quite their yet. I love the design; its very sleek, sexy, futuristic, and very heroine sheik (Wish other colors were available). I've been using iPods for years so I am use to iTunes and the iPod structure menu. So it took a quick second to get use to the Zune interface. The scroll wheel is nicely designed and can be used in 2 ways. Like the original Zune you can hit to select or touch the scroll wheel to browse. The best of both worlds and you get to turn off the touch feature if you want as well. I like the menu setup and I like the fact that you can customize the backgrounds with what's included or with your own pictures unlike the iPod. The pictures look nice & crisp on the 3.2 inch LCD screen. The only thing that was a disappointment was that the album art when a song is being played isn't the clearest image. I guess in order to save memory space the resolution was toned down. I love the fact it has a radio. After having an iPod for so long I realized how many years it was that I didn't get to listen to the radio due to the fact one wasn't built in. Zune also has updated software so that was a nice change even though I didn't see anything wrong with their original design. Last compliant is I wish with all the technology we had that syncing songs would be at faster speeds. I clocked myself last night & it took 3 ½ hours to port all my songs which was about 6500 songs & just a few movies & TV shows onto the Zune. Please note to all teckies out their lets build a better way of syncing songs so it doesn't operate at the speed of a crawling turtle. Bottom line is I am so pleased with my Zune. It really has done what the iPod hasn't been able to do and that's called EVOLVE. Having both devices I really prefer the Zune over the iPod. It's the best of the bunch and with some more advertising people will actually pay attention to this device. Bye Bye iPod Nation, Hello Zune Nation.