ID: B001P05NJ2-RNYSSVR6Z6XHH-ABNMJKRHN0ULX
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MC026LL-15-4-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: ABNMJKRHN0ULX
ReviewerName: TeamReveal
Date: December 14, 2008
Helpful: 21 of 24
Rating: 4.0
Title: Amazing but not without it's flaws, those hoping to use bootcamp for Windows may be disappointed.
Content:
This is my very first Macintosh computer. Earlier this year I bought an iPod Touch and I felt and still feel it is the most amazing pocketable gadget around, so since I was in need of a new computer I became highly interested in buying my first Apple computer and I went with the Late '08 Macbook Pro.
After a month of daily usage I think I've had enough time to form an unbiased opinion of the computer's achievements and shortcomings. 
The first thing you'll notice is that the Macbook Pro's glass display is understatedly amazing. There is something about the glass enclosure that gives everything a certain purity. All screens have some type of film over them, whether that be gloss, matt, or simply a glass enclosure. Each of these films have a different refractive index of light and thus look different. What that means is that even if a manufacturer uses the same exact screen, the quality of the screen will be affected by what type of film protection they use. 
The Macbook Pro's screen is super bright if needed, and whites are blinding white while blacks are deep and rich. Colors come off as appearing very rich and watching blu-ray movies is a real treat (yes you read that right, more on that later) The viewing angles are also better than most laptops, but like any TN panel they are limited. Comparing this screen to my 2 year old Toshiba Satellite's screen shows that the Macbook Pro isn't as good at dithering colors. If I head over to the Lagom LCD test website, my Toshiba shows all of the steps in contrast for the various colors while the Macbook Pro blends in the last 2-3 squares. For daily average use and movie watching the Macbook Pro is easily king, there's no competition between the two so I'm not saying the Toshiba is better but it does dither colors better. This may be important to you if you are looking to do important detailed photograph work on the Macbook Pro, but then again I don't know of any professional who would do important work on any laptop screen.
After a  month I feel pretty comfortable in OS X and I can definitely see why some people love it so much. The way OS X maximizes a screen to optimal width is superior to windows way of needlessly filling the entire screen. It did take a week or so to grow accustomed to this as I constantly wanted to fill the entire screen for no real reason, windows habit. Now I wish windows would maximize windows the way OS X does. I also love the fact that I can visit websites in safari without worrying about getting hit with a virus. In Windows I was constantly worried about visiting unknown sites because I didn't know if they had malicious code in them. More than once in Windows was I hit with messages from my virus scanner warning me that a website was trying to install malicious software. In Windows you have to "browse defensively" while in OS X you just have to worry about not downloading and installing malicious software. As far as the rest of the OS X GUI experience, I do feel that it is better than Windows but really, I don't feel there is anything wrong with Windows.
If you're an unknowledgeable computer user who constantly has problems because of viruses then I believe you should get a Macintosh because in my experience most computer problems are virus related, something OS X is almost immune too. Personally, I'm a fairly knowledgeable computer user and have never actually had a virus in my computer, the closest is being warned by my virus scanner that a website was trying to install malicious software.
Going back to hardware the Macbook Pro is an amazing engineering feat but you do pay for it. It is possible to get the same basic internal hardware for hundreds of dollars less. When I say same basic internal hardware I refer to the CPU and GPU which determine the performance, how fast, your computer can run. There are features in the Macbook Pro that you will not find in other notebooks. The magsafe power adapter is a neat feature, I absolute love the trackpad in OS X (hate it in Windows, but more on that later). Engineering the laptop to fit in an enclosure that's less than an inch thin is unnecessary and so is building it from a single piece of aluminum. No other manufacturer packs so much power in such a small and light frame because of the cost involved. It's these types of details that drive the price of the Macbook Pro up, but it's these details that ultimately lead the Macbook Pro to look and feel like a luxury laptop. You can buy a Toyota or you can buy a Lexus for much more. They both accomplish the same tasks but one delivers it in more style and luxury. If you're looking for the most raw power for your dollar then the Macbook Pro will disappoint but if you're looking for a laptop that looks and feels luxurious then you are in the right place.
Now back to software and some of my disappointment with the Macbook Pro and OS X. I'm starting an online masters program this coming Spring and a website called Angel is not supported in Safari which means I'll have to log in to Windows to use it. They will also be using a few Windows only applications which means more Windows. I will also have to turn in assignments in under Microsoft's Word and Excel extensions and as I previously only used windows my copy of Microsoft Office is for Windows only so I'll most likely have to incur another expense and buy this for OS X. I have bought VMWare so I can run Windows within OS X but I am a bit disappointed with its sluggish performance.  I also like watching blu-ray movies, this works under boot camp and by hooking up an external blu-ray player, playing video games is also another windows activity. Sure you can play games under OS X but Windows is superior for game availability and performance. One unexpected disappointment is that I feel OS X's font smoothing is not as good as Windows. Text in Windows looks sharper and is easier on my eyes, I've change some settings in OS X's appearance tab to improve things but I feel text looks better in Windows. Some people tell me they feel text is easier on the eyes in OS X for them so this will be a very personal preference for you.
So why did I buy a Mac when I needed to do so many windows only activities? One is because I was enamored with the iPod Touch's abilities and because of the amazing screen on the Macbook Pro. Most importantly, I was hoping to run Windows on the Macbook Pro just like I would on any non-Apple laptop. While you can run Windows under boot-camp it is not an ideal experience. For one the notebook runs very hot under windows. In OS X using the 9400m the notebook barely even gets warm, using the 9600m in OS X the notebook does get warm, but in Windows you can only use the 9600m and the notebook gets not warm, but very hot. You can feel the heat coming off the notebook as you type and it is a little uncomfortable. Metals have a low specific heat capacity (a term for us chemistry nerds) so since almost the entire notebook is made from aluminum you really feel the heat coming off.
Also, the trackpad in Windows is trash. Often times I have to click 3-4 times for it to register the command, right clicking barely works. Enabling "tap to click" helps the clicking matter a lot but then you get the problem of accidently clicking by accident when you type. The trackpad is a big generous size but that means your palm will rub against it. In OS X the software is smart and knows when your typing so it ignores your palm rubbing against the trackpad and has not been a problem, not even one incident. In Windows I'll get accidental input several times in just a paragraph. While you type you'll all of a sudden delete a paragraph or a word somewhere because it accidentally registered a click and a highlight somewhere. Disabling "tap to click" is the only way to remedy this problem and connecting an external mouse is the only way to avoid punching your fist through your screen.
Another problem is that you can't completely turn off the backlit keyboard under windows. A third problem is that the wireless card interferes with the sound card. Windows checks for new better wireless connections every 60 seconds and every time windows does this you get a sound crackle through your speakers (external or headphones) and a lag spike (terrible if you're playing online video games). Install a program called Vista Anti-Lag mostly solves this but not entirely. When I'm watching a movie I simply disable the wireless card to avoid sound crackling.
All of these issues except the heat issue is a driver problem and something Apple can fix by writing proper software for its hardware in Windows. Apple actively advertises boot camp and the ability to run Windows on their computers so I feel it's only fair they properly support their hardware under Windows.  I follow forums quite a bit and I'm not the only user experiencing some of these problems. Apple so far has said it's not a big enough issue to bother solving. I wasn't aware of all of these issues under windows, but had I known of them I might not have ordered the Macbook Pro because as I stated before I simply don't have the option to not use Windows anymore. Face it, it's a Windows world we live in. 
Another thing I realized after buying a Macbook Pro is that you really are at the mercy of Apple when you join the Macintosh side. With Windows you have a large amount of notebooks to choose from. Don't like HP's notebooks? No problem you have at least a dozen manufacturers to choose from. Also, being in a Windows world means it'll be unlikely to come across software that is Macintosh only without a Windows alternative, not true the other way around. What brought all of this to my mind was when I first saw a Macbook next to a Macbook Pro. The screen on the Macbook is trash. It looks washed out and the colors are anything but vibrant. The Macbook Air on the other hand has a very nice screen, why Apple can't put that screen in the Macbook baffles me. Comparing the Macbook to windows laptops in a Best Buy stored shows that windows laptops costing half of what a Macbook costs had screens that were vast superior. What this means is that if you are in the Macintosh camp and you want a laptop with a nice screen you only have the choice of the expensive Macbook Pro. On the other hand if you are on a tighter budget the Windows world can offer you a nice screen at a low price. Switching from one operating system to another isn't easy either when you invest in software.
On a bit of a side note, the first notebook  I received from Amazon came with a faulty superdrive but returning it was easy. I don't think this is a real big deal because all manufacturers will produce a few notebooks that are faulty, but I thought I should mention it.
If you don't need to use Windows often and really want a luxury laptop then I think you'll really love the Macbook Pro. If you need to use windows often and can deal with a bit of slow performance under a virtualizing software like VMware then you should be happy as well. But if you need to use Windows often and need performance (even low intensity applications like Microsoft Word are a bit sluggish under VMware) then you should think long and hard about buying a Macbook Pro. Don't expect a windows experience as good as a dedicated windows system.
Still I gave the Macbook Pro four stars. Overall I do find it to be an amazing experience under OS X but I hope software support increases or at least that Apple gets it's act together and offers better drivers for windows. I think the day that you no longer need to use Windows to accomplish a task for work or school is the day to mark the history books as the fall of Microsoft.