ID: B0012Y6HC8-R2GZNMT5UB874Y-A3P5IK917GNDPW
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-XSI-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A3P5IK917GNDPW
ReviewerName: Harry W "Harry"
Date: March 4, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent Entry level DSLR - Superb image quality
Content:
I bought the Rebel Xsi after I was extremely disappointed by the indoor image quality from my Nikon D60 with f>8.0. Where Nikon D60 failed miserably, the Rebel Xsi has been superb. I routinely take indoor group photographs with it with f8 or f11 at iso 400 (flash on) and they come out excellent!!! They are very sharp and have very good details, I don't even need to up the iso. I would have to give 5 starts to the sensor in this thing, it is just amazing!!!
The best camera's are the ones which shine in low light (indoor) and the rebel xsi's sensor gives it the ability to outperform anything else in this price range...
The other gr8 thing about the Xsi is that for another 90$ I was able to buy a gr8 portrait lens, the 50mm f1.8 prime lens. That thing is so fast that I do not need flash at all for taking potrait images of my kids. I love that lens!!!!
ing. 
Overall I am very happy with this camera. The only annoying this it has is the flash strobe based AF assist vs Nikon's AF assist lamp. The flash based AF assist gives the subject's the wrong impression about when the picture is taken and is very annoying. Thankfully  I have enough light in my house (where I take most of my indoor shots) that the flash AF assist is needed only about 10% of the time. I wanted to buy a speedlite to solve this issue + give me bounce flash etc., but the opteka speedlite turned out to be a waste of money (1 star) and the canon one (430 exII) is too much $$$ for me.
So for now I am just happy with the regular flash.... It gives good exposure most of the time (For potraits I focus on the faces and for groups pics I focus on darker clothes to get good exposure with the built in flash).
Also I only using center focus point 90% of the time as it is the fastest and most accurate.
Again overall the camera is 5 star.