ID: B001ET5U92-R3V74H9PHG95XB-A1CIWKKHUNMSIG
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D90-12-3MP-Digital-Body
ReviewerID: A1CIWKKHUNMSIG
ReviewerName: Kai
Date: December 12, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: User upgrading from a P&S camera
Content:
I'll start off by saying this is a very well built camera. My ability to "pocket" my camera is gone but it's a feature I'm willing to give up! It's feature packed, of course and it didn't completely ruin my wallet (the lenses may have but that's beside the point.)
How does it feel? Weighty but that's coming from someone who normally holds smaller Point and Shoot cameras. Still, after testing it out for over 30 days it feels wonderful. It fits my semi-large hands perfectly and yes! I am able to handle its weight around my neck for hours. Sure, it can get a little heavy when using sizable glass like the Tokina 12-24mm wide-angle. But it's a wide-angle, they're expected to be heavy.
Using a dslr has its learning curve. Which I understood before purchasing it. I read through various books and even a couple that specifically discusses the D90. So for me, it was a breeze to use. Not that it mattered, like P&S cameras it does have an "auto" mode so first time users can start snapping away the second the battery is ready to go. Navigating through the menu system can get bothersome but after a couple days you might find yourself flipping through it without thinking about it. This is where reading the manual will come in handy!
Functionality. It's a powerful camera, something I did not see coming until I took my first photo. At the time I used a Nikon 50mm 1.8D lens so it focused quickly and sharp, color me impressed. Battery life is as I expected, maybe a little longer than expected actually! At max I could get a days worth of shots if I ignore using the flash. And stayed off the lcd screen as much as possible. Otherwise two batteries seems about right. The built in flash works for most applications. The only times it really failed is when I use my larger lens, like my Nikon 16-85mm. Using it with the built in flash will cast a shadow of the lens below. Luckily I did know about this beforehand and invested in the SB-600. I do plenty of fill flash photography so it was a big help.
Like I said I'm new to the world of dslr photography but I do feel I made the right pick. It's no PRO camera but I wouldn't call it a beginner's dslr either. It's definitely your mid-range type which comes packed with features that are usually found in the more expensive D3 and D700 cameras. The only feature I wish it had is weather resistant sealing, like its big brother the D300/s. Oh well, it just means I should keep it away from the dust storms and downpours. 
Bottom line this is one fun camera to use!