ID: B001GCTT7G-R1V94VQFY4EPMH-A4SD1MX7QMD8
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB467LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A4SD1MX7QMD8
ReviewerName: L. Olson "olsonl13"
Date: October 21, 2008
Helpful: 8 of 17
Rating: 5.0
Title: I'm a PC & a MAC.
Content:
I have owned and built many PC's. I use them daily. I have been using Macs since the Apple II GS but stopped because of the price and software in the early 2000's. Since OS X and the switch to Intel the Mac is finally back to being a great computer. I really appreciate the Green efforts Apple is making too.
Remember the first iBook. That thing was ugly. It was low powered and was a pain to use. Those days are long gone. The New MacBook is Gorgeous and blazing fast. This is a big step up from the last Macbook. For me the multi-touch trackpad alone makes this one of the best computers to use. No other software and hardware comes close to matching the ease of use. I like it so much I wish I could get it with an iMac. Some people won't like the changes but I love them. The improved graphics and overall design is fantastic. The glossy screen pops more than the previous model as long as you can avoid glare and the lack of firewire and the old video ports won't be missed by me. 
The Apple MacBook Pro MB471LL/A 15.4-Inch Laptop (2.53 GHz Intel Core 2 Duo Processor, 4 GB RAM, 320 GB Hard Drive, Slot Loading SuperDrive) is a better machine (I own one and it's my favorite computer so far) and has all the pro features you'd expect as well as a "Pro" price tag. If you plan on doing heavy video or Photoshop you need at least 4GB RAM. I don't play games and have not needed to use the better graphics card. Don't worry about graphics card power for Photoshop, a fast Hard Drive and lots of RAM will help more. So far I love the LED backlight glossy screen, which is better then the 13 inch Macbooks. I tend to work in dark environments.
I'd love to see the DVD drive go away and have more hard drive space and have 3G/4G mobile internet access. But they will most likely do that with the Macbook Air first, it's already half way there.
Some things that I dislike are the monitor, which should be better, I hear it has been recently upgraded. And the lack of firewire is dissapointing but I have it on other machines. Also the back-lit keyboard should be standard. They should give you the Apple Remote too. It is really cool to use with the new Hulu software.
One of things that took me some time to get used to was the use of Expose to manage windows, let's you see all your open windows. I got so used to the taskbar in Windows I really wanted every window to live down there. I also was used to the old window shade trick in the older Macs. Now that I'm using the new trackpad I wish windows would learn some new tricks. I also love the feature, Spaces, that let's you have more than one desktop.
If you decide to buy a PC use the money you save to buy Windows 7 when it comes out. I'm running it on my 5 year old HP laptop with 512MB RAM and it beats all other Windows OS hands down. So if you are a die hard Windows fan wait for Windows 7. Otherwise get a Mac with OSX 10.5, the best money can buy. Of course you could buy the Mac and install windows on it too.
If you don't need a laptop the iMacs make great machines with more hard drive space. I find I'm using more and more Hard Drive space for music, movies and photos as their quality increases. I also have a Time Capsule and love it. I use all my PC's and Macs with it and have had no problems. 
I also am testing out Apple's MobileMe service. So far my favorite feature is that I can access my external hard drive attached to my Time Capsule anytime I'm on the internet. I also really like the ease of making websites and posting them with password protection. The amazon price for .me is much better then Apple's so I think it will be worth the investment. I'm going to wait since I still have a month left of testing. I also plan to get the new iPhone to test it with it.
Please note that Macs are NOT perfect machines. I do tend to have less issues with my Macs and more enjoyment from using them. My poor tricked out PC just doesn't get the time of day anymore. Maybe I need to install OS X on it.
[...]