ID: B001I902HS-R167F3MM6FBOMB-A2LW5AL0KQ9P1M
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Panasonic-MC-CG885-OptiFlow-Lightweight-Canister
ReviewerID: A2LW5AL0KQ9P1M
ReviewerName: Erica J. Dymond
Date: February 26, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: A Few Minor Flaws But an Overall GREAT Product ...
Content:
Let's begin with aesthetics: 
Pearl-white with both dark and light gray accents, this appliance is a welcome change to my mold-green Hoover. The canister has a soft tear-drop shape which enhances its appeal ... unlike my mold-green box of a Hoover. The beater-bar is wooden ... which is a strangely lovely (ODD!) touch. Overall, if a visitor saw this Panasonic in my foyer, I wouldn't feel ashamed (unlike that MOLD-GREEN, boxy, plastic beater-barred Hoover).  
Technical features:
This Panasonic has an activation-switch on the handle: slide for either the bare floor or carpet features. For me, this has become one of the deciding features when buying a vacuum. It makes cleaning so much easier. Additionally, one can adjust the height of the beater-bar according to carpet thickness. Now, I have to admit that the 360-degree swiveling hose is nice but the swiveling handle is not. At about mid-way on the metal-pole, there is a large gap which permits a great range of movement ... the result is a vacuum that sometimes moves in an unwanted direction and is an annoyance to correct (minor stuff). I wish the pole were in a fixed position. 
Benefits for those with allergies:
This is a super clean vacuum. It throws very little dust and has an effective HEPA filtration system. As a person with severe allergies, I can testify to the fact that this Panasonic has kept me sneeze-free (in my house). I have tried a bagless and I understand their appeal. BUT, they are insanely dirty (I mean REALLY DIRTY!!) and extremely hard to clean. I invested in an expensive, allegedly effective one ... I had to replace it three months later with a canister. 
Drawbacks:
Okay, so it's a little hard to control the movement (too many areas swivel). But a little more problematic is the canister itself. Perhaps as a result of its super-light, super small design, the canister flips over (like a TURTLE!) all too frequently. So, while I used to be annoyed by stooping-over to activate my Hoover, I am now stooping-over to flip my Panasonic. This may also be a result of the 360 casters on the bottom of the canister ... it seems there is no resistance and it just flips. Moreover (and this is a minor complaint), the handle does not attach to the canister for storage. My old Hoover had two grooves in the base and two prongs in the handle ... the handle slid into those grooves to make transportation easier and storage-space more compact. It would have been a "nice touch" here but it's not a deal-breaker.
Bottom-line:
I have now used this product for just under a year. And, for all its "glitches," I DO like it (better than that ugly, sneezy, Hoover!) It keeps me healthy and it easily fits in my closet. Not only is it attractive, but NOT ONE part on this MUCH USED vacuum has broke or even become damaged. Hearty little machine.