ID: B001XURPQI-R25QR8MWKU7ITN-A14FQS9Z5USX0
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-T1i-Digital-Body-Only
ReviewerID: A14FQS9Z5USX0
ReviewerName: Cheap-n-Easy
Date: January 1, 2010
Helpful: 10 of 17
Rating: 2.0
Title: Canon missed an opportunity here ...
Content:
I have been a Canon fan since high school 30 years ago and the days of the AE-1, one of the all time SLR milestones in photography history. I got the T1i for Christmas after researching it a bit on the web and returned it a week later after about 400 shots with it. Here's why.
The good:
- Handy body and light weight for a DSLR
- Extremely easy to master all controls. Superbly well laid out menus and controls.
- A lot of great features and controls
- Great video capability for a DSLR (this actually drew my to buy the D1i)
- Great price for the specs
- Great software package, especially RAW converter(!), comes with the camera.
The bad:
- Picture quality (only checked JPEG) is utterly disappointing and for me unacceptable
   > Pictures are very soft and 100% crops show it clearly missing sharpness
   > The camera I had had a focusing issue. 60% of the shots were out of focus, even after I switched to spot focusing and                  checked the focus in the image at the area where I focused. The focusing system in auto picks the "wrong" focus spots most of the time.
   > Haze throughout the shots, but no function to"warm" the pictures.
   > Missing some key image control features that would actually help to overcome the image issues
I am no novice to photography and have been an enthusiast for over 30 years. I have a full Olympus OM-2 ssytem with 15 lenses, done B&W as well as color developing in my home lab and have four other digi cams. This camera was a disappointing experience form a manufacturer I hold in the highest esteem.
After checking much more in detail and getting deeply involved in respectable itnernet forums, there is a story emerging. The Canon forums are full of similar reports with this model. there are many recommendations how to try to overcome these issues. Many photographic tests are also indicating a soft picture. 
I am sad to say, but after a week of research I switched camps and ordered a Nikon D90. I have been shooting for two days with the D90 now and the results are breathtakingly better. There is simply no comparison in image quality, controls and built of the two cams, but it has to be said that the Nikon D90 kit with two lenses ($1356 on amazon) costs $400 more than the Canon T1i kit  with two lenses($850). I thought for a minute about getting the Canon D7, but it is quite a bit more than the D90 and the forums are also complaining about image quality on that camera.
It is a known fact that the fosuing system of Nikon is quite a bit better than the Canon system in these prosumer DSLR ranges from sub $1000 to $3000 DSLRs
All I can say .... make sure to take sample pictures before you buy the Canon T1i and ensure you like the results BEFORE you buy one.