ID: B001FA1NCI-R2NW93WI7S783X-A1UMSB7LAW0RIR
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Black-Generation-Previous-Model
ReviewerID: A1UMSB7LAW0RIR
ReviewerName: mom2twoboys "Mom"
Date: July 8, 2009
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 3.0
Title: Overpriced, can't use with non-ipod speakers etc...go for the Sony Walkman MP3 instead.
Content:
I got this Ipod for my husband for Fathers day..and the Sony Walkman MP3 for myself last year.  If you are struggling with the price on Ipod...let me share my reviews on both:
First, I got the Sony Walkman MP3 for myself and love it!! It's so easy to use, clear hard cases available rather than creepy rubber skins, it's slim but not too slim, a very big screen, easy to connect and load songs.  I never even read the (disk) manual that came with it.
Then I got my husband an actual Ipod.  I don't know what I was thinking.  I just thought I'd go 'more expensive, top of the line' for Father's Day.  Well, I wish I had gotten him the same Walkman and here is why...
First, the ipod is WAY more expensive.  (I got him the set, Ipod with cords, crummy small speaker, rubber skins included from Walmart package) 
Next, in the short run, the worst part about the Ipod for me is it only works with other Ipod stuff!!!  He has a cord to listen to his Ipod in the car...but mine wont connect to that cord.  Only Ipods connect with Ipod cords.  Also, I can't use his speakers...same connection problem.  
Then the real, long term issues...it's NO BETTER as far as sound.  
The Walkman has a BIG screen with very easy to maneuver controls.  The Ipod has that annoying wheel thing, which I don't care for.  
Also, the Ipod took us nearly two hours to connect to the pc, navigate the pages and Ipod website...and get to where we could finally load songs.  It took us even longer to delete the junk songs that automatically comes with the Ipod.  THEN when we deleted the songs from our pc...get this...IT DELETES ALL THE SONGS FROM YOUR IPOD!!!!  No kidding, look it up on yahoo answers..a real pain in the katookus!  Both of these progblems are discussed over and over...this is not a user friendly item as far as plug and play.
Lastly, I connected my Sony Walkman and figured out how to do everything I needed to with no directions and within moments.  For the Ipod we had to read how to 'eject' it from the computer before disconnecting it.  With the Walkman, I just unplug it from the pc/cord when I'm done...everything is fine.  I can load songs into my Walkman, then delete them from my PC and THEY STAY ON MY WALKMAN until I choose to delete one or all of them.  Also, the walkman feels more solid and less cheap than the Ipod as well.  And anything that says "works with almost any mp3' will work with the Walkman, because of the connection openings...but with Ipod..you must look for 'works with Ipod."
Trust me, go with the Sony Walkman.  This particular one is a bit bigger than the one I got my niece..she got the smaller Walkman version they sell at Walmart currently.  Other than that they are both about the same...get either.
LOVE my Walkman, thanks Sony!