ID: B00185XISW-RKMGISBENQ838-A1AEZECUCN0U6Y
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Eco-heater-602-High-Efficiency-Electric-Whole-Room
ReviewerID: A1AEZECUCN0U6Y
ReviewerName: Robert
Date: February 6, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 7
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good heater for a specific requirement
Content:
I first heard about this from another Amazon reveiwer that was reviewing another heater, and they ended up getting this one. I thought I would end up getting an oil filled heater, but there were a lot of reviews of quality problems, noise and fumes. This one seemed to fit the bill for my particular requirements, so I ordered one. It does not have thermostatic controls, just an on/off switch. We control it with a LUX win100 programmable outlet thermostat (see my review). Together the 2 products keep baby's room exactly at 70 degrees from 8:00PM to 7:30AM, allowing us to turn off the house furnace at night. It doesn't get hot enough to catch anything on fire or stink like a lot of higher wattage heaters. I also have a concern with adding a 1500 watt heater (most other heaters) to an already maxed 15 amp breaker. This is only a 400 watt unit. We are in northern california where it only gets down to the 40's or 50's at night outside. It works fine for us in a 10 x 12 room with the door closed. It does not run constantly to keep the room to 70, so I suppose it could keep up with colder weather. We've had no problems so far. It does not stink, make noise or get hot enough to burn you. One concern I had was how it would be when our baby turns into a toddler and finds in necessary to touch everything. It is supposed to be mounted low so the heat goes up and circulates, so it can't be placed out of reach of a child. It won't burn you if you touch it, but you will not want to touch it for more that a second! Hopefully, we can use it through the toddler stage without any injuries. Lastly, I don't quite get why it is so expensive, since it is just a large low wattage heating element (without even a thermostatic control). I would think a product like this would market for about $50.00 or so. Therefore 4 stars....otherwise I would give it 5 stars. Hopefully, it will last for a while... We are happy with it and would recommend it if it suits your needs. 
R.