ID: B001P05NJ2-R29T0CUELIHAE0-A4U27URFECK1U
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MC026LL-15-4-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A4U27URFECK1U
ReviewerName: Chris Damon "Classic TV Guy"
Date: June 2, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: The Best Computer I Ever Owned
Content:
I have had this computer for about 6 months now, and I love my MacBook Pro. At home I have a Logitech wireless external keyboard and mouse, a Western Digital Firewire 800 external drive, and a 22" HP Flat Widescreen Monitor, so it is almost like having a desktop only cooler. I am a dual OS user (Windows/Mac) and I also have both OS on my Mac. Mac OS is by far the superior operating system. But, this computer runs Windows XP and Windows 7 (beta) fast. That's the good thing about a Mac, you can natively run Windows without emulation software, so there is nothing sucking up the processor power! Of course you can use VM Ware or Parallels if you want to run WIndows while running Mac OS which is also cool, but just not as fast. So, for all the people who cry about how expensive the Mac is, IT IS TWO COMPUTERS IN ONE, a Windows machine, a Mac, and  if you want to run Linux that too. Everything runs flawlessly in windows as long as it is either USB or firewire. I also upgraded my wireless router to an "N" device, and let me tell you, the router is in my basement and I am two flights up. I get a faster connection than with my ethernet cable plugged in (running 100 Mbps). My next upgrade will be an Time Capsule, though part of my external drive is partitioned for Time Machine, which works quietly on its own in the background.
When I go out with my MacBook Pro I never had any problem connecting to Public WiFi networks. The computer simply finds what's available and asks you if you want to connect, it's easier than Windows wireless connections. I also must admit, that when going places, this is the machine you want to be seen with, it is just attractive. So far I haven't seen anyone else with this machine at the places I bring it, I see mostly older MacBook Pros, but the "Black" keys give away that you have the newer model, not to mention the slim aluminum case. The keys are lit from behind for dark locations, shut off in bright locations to save battery, and dim accordingly as the light changes. There is also manual control, but the automatic works fine. Same with the screen brightness. It adjusts automatically according to the lighting of the environment you are currently in. There is also manual adjustment, but I never touch it. It also dims during periods of inactivity to save battery power. The screen itself is just awesome, the best laptop screen out there. I am a fan of glossy screens, to me it just makes the picture more vibrant, so those who like the matte screen might be disappointed, since this model does not that. 
The NVidia Graphics in this machine is top notch too, I use this laptop for video, and with the high graphics turned on, this laptop does a great job. A quick note though, if you are on battery power you will definitely want to just use the integrated graphics mode, since this will almost double the runtime. You will also want to turn off the bluetooth radio, since this also eats up a lot of juice. It's best to bring the power adapter if you plan on doing video or picture editing or heavy bluetoothing.
When I go out, I use the trackpad, and leave the mouse at home. You get use to the pad quickly, including the gestures and lack of any buttons, it is quite intuitive. You just have to remember that the button is towards the bottom. 
The only thing that is a "con" for me is that the DVD writer is only 8X and not 16X, but that is just a minor inconvenience.