ID: B001EU9UTM-R3T28Q6CH146YX-AYALRTSL0S0SP
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Mr-Coffee-ECMP50-Espresso-Cappuccino
ReviewerID: AYALRTSL0S0SP
ReviewerName: no1mass "Tim"
Date: November 21, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Not toooo bad
Content:
I've never reviewed anything online, but felt compelled to review this product. I purchased it as an 'interim' fix until I could afford to get my isomac tea fixed (which turns out was not even worth fixing) based on reviews read on Amazon. We've had it about 3 months. I have been pleasantly surprised by the both the acceptability of flavor of shots and by the ability to foam. While I would not use this machine if the majority of your coffee are espressos, if you do mostly milk based or frozen drinks as I do, I've found it works fine. Nobody but me can tell the difference between drinks made from this machine or the isomac (or Rancilio previous to that). Are the shots as good as from those machines? No; when you had good shots from those machines, they were fantastic; but unfortunately over 6 years of using those machines I found there are so many variables that I often ended up with not very good tasting shots. Shots from Mr. Coffee are not quite as good, but more consistent, so I'll take it.  This machine does not foam as nice either, but the foam is better than I had anticipated once I practiced -I would call it a light 'almost' micro foam. I would take a latte made form this machine over Starbucks anyday. And now the good news. The Rancilio I had was $600, the Isomace Tea over $1400, and they were repaired before they went bad. Total cost of ownership over 6 years - about $3,000. I was using pre-softened RO water, but found out after that the people who sold me the machines didn't give me full information on RO units not filtering out calcium or lime, so certainly the damage to the machines was partly my fault; none-the-less, even if I had added in all the additional water softening equipment, upkeep, etc. over those years, it would have easily added another $1000. Would I love to have an upscale fancy machine again? Yes, I loved having them, but I just can't justify the cost anymore-not when I can replace the Mr. Coffee for less than it cost me just to ship my previous espresso machines to get fixed! They take up less counter space, can be taken to a friend's house for parties, and with our hard water in Las Vegas will no doubt scale up in probably less than a year, or the pump will blow out; then I'll spend another $70 at Dealyard and be good for another year-which I am more than happy to live with.