ID: B001PII4IG-R36OCN6YVXXR9G-A3NX8Q9S7XV8NS
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VGN-P530H-Lifestyle-Processor-G-Sensor
ReviewerID: A3NX8Q9S7XV8NS
ReviewerName: Juan Alvarez "Latin American Road Warrior and...
Date: April 21, 2009
Helpful: 43 of 43
Rating: 3.0
Title: Great laptop, but not for everybody
Content:
I was one of the first people to buy one of these and have been using it since the beginning of February.  (Bought the VGN-P530H)  This is my main computing device that I use 12-16 hours a day and I love it, but it is not for everybody.
I travel a lot, nearly all of it internationally, and often in economy.  This is a laptop that you can use on the smallest of tray tables, even with the seat in front of you fully reclined.  I bought the leather pouch accessory and often carry the laptop around in it.  It's great to just be able to walk by my desk, toss it in the pouch and go to a meeting and then pull it out if I need it.  Since it is only about the size of a notepad, it's easy to carry around everywhere, to situations I wouldn't want the bother of a laptop bag.
The laptop appears sturdily built for the rigors of road warrior travel.  Since February, I've flown more than 50K miles with it, including a 2 week vacation in Japan where we visited 11 cities.  It's taken its fair share of bumps and doesn't show it.  I originally bought this for my wife but began using it as my own when my company provided Dell E4200 broke in its 3rd week (the monitor backlighting electronics burned out).   While the monitor lid is not thicker than other models, it seems to be more resilient because of the smaller surface area.
The Vaio P is visually attractive.  When using it in the executive lounge in the airport or on a plane, people will often come up to ask what model it is.  The screen quality is amazing, especially when you consider they packed 1600x768 pixels into that tiny screen.  You'll need 20-20 vision or better to be able to comfortably read this screen, which will be a deal breaker for lot of people.  If you're unsure, try one out in a store before buying.  Setting the icons and text to a larger size can help.  One of the things that I don't like about the laptop is that it does not have and lower resolutions that are in proportion.  For example, the next lower resolutions are 1024x768 and 800x600 which appear distorted since they are out of proportion compared to the native resolution.  There are times when I'm in a bumpy car or somewhere else with a lot of motion and use the 800x600, but it would be nice if they had something more proportional like 800x400 or 1024x500.
Love the keyboard and the pointer stick (I can't stand track pads).  The right shift key is unusually sized and placed, it drove me nuts for about 2 weeks until I got used to it.
The power adaptor is small.  There are no ports for Ethernet and VGA on the laptop, you need to plug in the included dongle for that.  The dongle is fairly small and clips on to the power adaptor brick.  The only thing I didn't like about the dongle is that it does not have little LEDs on the Ethernet port that show the status of the Ethernet connection.  This is a useful features for travelers - to know more quickly if the port you plugged into is live or not.
The laptop came with Verizon 3G, which has a nice prepaid option where you can buy service for $9.95 a day, without entering into a contract, which is nice compared to buying WiFi access in hotels, since you can use it anywhere you have coverage for the day.  (I didn't find any coverage holes on my trips to southern California, Chicago, Northern Virginia, Baltimore and Miami)  However, since most of my travel is outside the US, where the card does not seem to work, this is a mostly useless feature for me and it would have been nice to be able to trade it for something more useful like, GPS.
A few things I didn't like:
The main issue we had with the laptop was poor performance with Windows Vista.  As installed, it is unacceptably slow for regular everyday use.  We installed the beta of Windows 7 on the laptop and it is working fine.  Installing Windows 7 on the laptop is a breeze, the only drivers I downloaded were for the video and the network.  I have been running with this laptop as my main computer for the last few weeks (on Windows 7) and the performance is not an issue opening web pages, outlook, powerpoint, excel and word at the same time.  Things will start to slow down with too many (e.g., 8 Firefox windows, outlook, 2 powerpoint presentations and 3 excel sheets) - closing a few windows will bring back the zippiness.  We didn't get the SSD and I wouldn't bother.  I keep a fast 32GB SDHC card in the SD bay to increase the storage size since 64GB can be a little limiting.
The battery life is not great - with WiFi on, I get less than 2 hours battery life.  A little more than 2 hours with the WiFi off.  The power adaptor outputs a non-standard voltage: 10.5V, so you will not be able to use it with nearly any universal power supply or universal laptop batteries (like the ADC).  Together with the low battery life, this is a serious problem on trips.
A word to the wise, contrary to some misleading information on the Vaio website, this laptop does *not* come with GPS or any navigation software.  I was very disappointed about this, as the website intro to this product implies they have it and the sales rep that sold me my laptop over the phone confirmed that the laptop definitely does come with GPS.  To the best of my knowledge, none of the P-series laptops Sony is selling in North America come with GPS.  We came very close to returning the laptop for this reason alone.  Another thing to be wary about - the sales rep tried to sell me an Ethernet/VGA dongle when the laptop already comes with one.
The WiFi card does not support 5GHz WiFi N - this is disappointing in a brand new premium laptop since this has been available on many laptops since the middle of last year.  Also, the laptop does not have an easily found serial number on the bottom.  This may sound nitpicky, but it's a problem for those of us that visit buildings that require registering the laptops with a serial number before entering and upon leaving.
In summary, this may sound like a lot of things not to like for someone who loves the laptop, but I wanted to be complete as this laptop is not for everybody.  I love the smaller size and that for such a small size it has such a nice keyboard, screen resolution and reasonable performance on Windows 7.  More memory, a faster processer and a larger disk would be nice, but I can get by.  The bigger problem is the battery life and I'll probably be getting an extended battery in the future to solve that.   The Vaio P is also reasonably rugged - my last 2 laptops were a Dell E4200 and a Sony TZ-200 both of which developed screen problems and needed repair on my first or second trip with them (and neither suffered any significant abuse).  I'd give it 4 stars, but am docking Sony 1 star for being misleading about the GPS.