ID: B001SAS5NU-R3R7IGNXYYMZE8-A2Z0NRGDFAONZD
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Factory-Reconditioned-Dyson-12446-02-DC21-Canister
ReviewerID: A2Z0NRGDFAONZD
ReviewerName: Gary G. Kish
Date: September 14, 2009
Helpful: 17 of 18
Rating: 5.0
Title: Pretty amazing vacuum
Content:
Factory-Reconditioned Dyson 12446-02 DC21 Canister Vacuum
Just got it last Friday to replace a Sharp canister. We are in our 40's with 3 young children and a white short hair dog, with black couchs and chairs. 
 Negs brought up by other reviewers first:
Heavy: Yes, but it's all motor. Powerful motor=heavy weight. Since it's well balanced with good handles I didn't have a problem moving it around. It will follow you straight as long as you snap the center hose conection, (which I didn't at first). If you don't attach this it will not track you when you pull it.
Short cord: As short as the last 3 vacuums I've had. It's not a issue to me.
Plastic construction: It's acrylic and very strong. If it was metal it would weigh even more. I don't expect anything to break unless I throw it over my head down the stairs. The tube that extends seems to be made of powdered metal compressed into form. That's not cheap to do but it's lightweight and strong. Rather than cheap the light weight chassis come across as modern and high tech. 
Hard to empty: Couldn't be easier. I take the canister off and put it down into a trash bin before I empty it. No dust. No issue. Easy.
Tube pinching: It can happen. You just have to unwind the tube correctly and it won't pinch for the rest of the vacuuming. Anyone who has used a canister has done this and corrected it within seconds. Really, not a big deal.
Tube collapsing: The clicks are very soft. You just have to pull hard to engage them. Once it locks you will not have this problem, it will stay locked. With my kids the house is never quiet enough to hear the clicks, so I just give it a hard pull.
For myself this is the best vacuum I've ever used. It's a smart design with clever packaging. Love the way it all attachs together for storage. You can change tools in seconds. 
The Dyson pulls more stuff in one vacuuming than the sharp (bagless) did in a full week of vacuuming. That's a game changer for me. My dog shed a huge amount of fur on our black bedcover in seconds when I wasn't looking. It would have been 30-45 mins with the sharp + a tape roller. The dyson was taking it off in one pull with the hard floor attachment. Just amazing. 
Same with our black couch, which is a constant battle with our white dog. The dyson makes this so easy I could kiss it. I used to put so much time trying to get the fur off before my wife would see it and be rightly upset. Now my dog (and his owner) are safe 
The end of the tube is a head unit that snaps into the floor motor brush. This is the only thing you have to adjust too when your using small attachments. It would be nice if they had (I might try to make it) a hose that plugs into the end of the head just for small uses. What I do like about it is you can stand when doing things I had to bend for before. Corner cleaning, ceiling molding, couch and chairs, stuff like that.
I LOVE THIS VACUUM! NO REGRETS!!!!! :)
9-17-09 update. I put the brush attachment on and vaccumed my dog. He wasn't thrilled but I took off so much hair (like brushing) that I'm going to do it weekly. The brush is very soft and it didn't hurt him.
Hose length is very long and the motor is much quieter than the Sharp canister the Dyson replaced. It is also very easy to go from hardwood to carpet with the motorhead switch that your foot uses.
1-19-2010 
Update. Going strong with zero problems or issues. Dropped it down a half flight of stairs a few months ago and held my breath but so far so good. Nothing broken or acting up. My rebuilt one came with a hard floor atachment that is very light and works wonderful. Make sure your rebuilt one has that attachment, or pick one up if you have hardwood floors or tile.