ID: B001FA1NEQ-R20RJZ4ZVCWPJY-
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Black-Generation-Previous-Model
ReviewerID: 
ReviewerName: 
Date: September 12, 2008
Helpful: 5 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: The Nano's New Features Keep it Fresh
Content:
The iPod Nano has again been updated and improved, with some very nice new features.  I was able to pick up a new Nano and a new iPod Touch at the Apple Store.  
Accelerometer Built-In - The new iPod Nano has built in accelerometers like the iPhone and iPod Touch.  This allows you to enter "cover-flow," browsing by simple rotating the Nano to the left or right.  No longer do you have to navigate through menus to get to cover-flow, just flip the shuffle.  
The accelerometer also allows you to "shake to shuffle," which means if you give the nano a strong shake back and forth, it will go to another track and shuffle your mix.  However, it does take a fairly significant shake, so running should not trigger this feature, which made me happy.  Fun feature.  I keep wanting to do this though, so I never get through an entire song. ha.
Some games in the future, for the Nano may also take advantage of the accelerometer according to Apple.
Genius - This is the other new feature.  When you are on a song that fits your current mood, hold down the center button. This will bring of a menu, which allows you to select "Genius."  That creates a custom playlist intelligently selected based on the track you were listening to.  It finds songs that go together.  I've been very impressed with the results.  It helps you rediscover some of your favorite music.  
The iPod Nano is back to a long shape, which many find easier for holding.  It also allows the display to sit longways, which helps in menu navigation.  The Nano is as thin as ever, and is stunningly gorgeous with the aluminum design and many colors.
Overall, I thought carefully on how to rate thew new Nano.  It wasn't an earth-shattering update, but when you actually get to use it, you do appreciate the new features and design.  I find it a worthy additional to the iPod Family, and I don't see any problems with it.  I'll keep enjoying mine.