ID: B001F7AHXW-R3DXKCDBMTPG0-A2ULSA0IRUE09E
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-classic-Silver-Generation-Previous
ReviewerID: A2ULSA0IRUE09E
ReviewerName: Cabir Davis
Date: October 16, 2008
Helpful: 15 of 20
Rating: 3.0
Title: An Ipod Downgrade : Not For Massive Music Collectors
Content:
While there are a few good things about this new Ipod Classic 120GB, I must preface this review with the fact that I am a user who has a very large music library (2TB - thats 2000 GB, and counting), and my primary requirement is a music player than can host as much music as possible.
I found the answer last year in the Ipod 160GB Classic, a slow, klutzy little player that somehow managed to do the job. I still use that Ipod as my primary Ipod, because its the only one where I can literally dump almost anything on, considering the vast space. However, with the cancellation of the 160GB model, and its' replacement by the 120 GB model, I fear that Apple has totally lost touch with its' more serious and geeky customers such as myself, who live for music.
Personally, I would be happy with an Ipod that could host 500GB - 1000GB, but realistically speaking this may not be possible for a while, considering Apple is insistent on using flash-based drives rather than hard-drives. Though flash is indeed more efficient, I think Ipods of 8GB-32GB of memory is a joke for people like me who have large libraries. Small sizes that like simply don't make sense. 
With that in mind, its ironic that Apple decided to cut 40GB off its' Classic model, and reduce it to 120GB (and please also be aware that only about 105GB of it is actually usable) - what a pity. However, I bought this solely for it to act as a second Ipod for me, since the first 160GB one was completely full. While I like the black charcoal color, and the thinner feel, I am not at all impressed by the 'Genius Playlist' - only because when you have a very large music library, some of the Ipods' assumptions and its' musical selections become very, very strange and bizarre. Songs with no connection at all started popping up, which of course is totally annoying. This, to me, was a total waste of a feature, and I am shocked that so many users are actually finding it useful.
In the end, I give this a negative ranking because I see no improvements over the 160GB. This one took just as long to sync, and I like the sound quality of my 160GB more than this (has anyone else experienced this issue?). WHY did Apple have to downgrade the Classic to a smaller memory capacity? In this day and age, at that! Horrible decision.
Three Stars.