ID: B0013FJBX8-R3DXX5I7FDOLW9-A2M0RAJSV8U55V
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB470LL-15-4-Inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: A2M0RAJSV8U55V
ReviewerName: terrance005 "terrance005"
Date: February 7, 2009
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 4.0
Title: Stellar build quality, Superb software
Content:
The unibody construction definitely adds to this notebook's durability and reliability.  
(Actually, it's 4.5 stars, but there are no half stars.)
The keyboard takes a couple days to get used to, and then you realize you can type on it at normal speed.  It does not feel mushy.
Yes it comes with Firewire, which has been dropped from the unibody Macbooks.  No doubt because USB 3 is going to come to the industry and that is rated at 10 times the speed of USB 2.  This, and the more Apple uses industry-standard components the cheaper they can make their products.  Still a bit sad though, cause Firewire is actually superior.
iLife (included software) is GREAT (photo management, make movies, create music and learn to play an instrument, publish and manage websites).
iWork (purchased separately) is a refreshingly elegant, and more user-friendly re-think of wordprocessing and page layout, spreadsheet, and presentation software.  Note that Apple Mail comes with the machine.  You don't need to buy iWork to get e-mail software.   A Windows PC often does not come with Microsoft Outlook- you have to buy that or MS Office separately or use the free e-mail software called Thunderbird.
The integration, seamlessness, and ease of use set the Mac apart and ultimately make you more productive.  (Far more productive than any difference in Gigahertz with a Windows machine.)   I used Microsoft Windows for 12 years and will not go back.  This is a superior platform with far fewer glitches, weird things, and security/virus/spyware issues.    Most Apple software you can use without buying a big book on Amazon on how to use them. [The money that some people save on buying a PC, often goes towards buying software similar to what comes BUILT-IN on a MAC, or to software for securing the machine (e.g. Trend Micro, Norton Antivirus), or speeding it up (e.g. Diskeeper disk defragmenter).  Furthermore, the security software on a PC often reduces performance by 10-20%.]
I get about 2.5 hours battery life typically, and though that is about normal for notebooks (in general) with my kind of activity, (web, music, e-mail, movies, wireless) it really is not enough.  6 hours would be very good, and *8 would be perfect*.  I hardly use the DVD superdrive (about 10 times last year), and would MUCH PREFER IF APPLE USED A BUILT-IN BATTERY (like the MacBook Air or the new 17-inch MacBook Pro)  AND, THAT THEY REPLACE THE OPTICAL DRIVE WITH MORE BATTERY.  The MacBook Air has this, but is a no-go for me because of the smaller screen and resolution, and the 17" is *for me* too big for lots of lugging around or use on a plane in Economy class.  As long as Apple bundles an external slim optical drive with the system, many people should be fine.
*Aside*:  We should actually be getting physical content on Secure Digital (SD) Cards, and  SDHC (SD High Capacity).  Mechanical optical drives are so last century... including Blu-Ray.  Noise, scratched disks, skipping, misaligned heads... all those problems disappear.  It's a monumental shift like going from VHS to DVD.  Those little cards like what go in a camera can replace CDs, DVDs, AND Blu-Ray.  Imagine just slipping one of those into the side of a TV in order to watch a movie.  No need for separate Blu-Ray players and cabling, and this method uses far LESS ENERGY.   I really think this can be done... more and more people's content is purchased and downloaded or streamed anyway.  And an SDHC reader can be inserted into the ExpressCard slot of the MacBook Pro, further eliminating the need for an external optical drive.
To reduce heat, noise,  and increase battery life and ruggedness, I am also eager for them to use Solid-State (no moving parts) Drives as standard on all MacBooks instead of mechanical hard drives.     However, you can get it now as an option.  If you have the money, get it (128 GB is available for the 15-inch; and 256 GB, or 128 GB are available for the 17-inch.)
Make sure to cover your bases and get the Extended 3-year Apple Warranty.  You'll get peace of mind, and fast service from Apple.
Finally, iLife and iWork shine with MobileMe [...].  Get MobileMe.  Yes you can backup to an external HD or Apple's Time Capsule, but it's in the house with your computer.  For true backups you need to have it offsite.  MobileMe and the iDisk will give you this (20GB).   Also, you can backup to 64GB flash drives such as those by Kingston.   [More reliable than hard disk, consumes less power=more battery life, and light enough that you can easily carry a backup (not your only backup) with you.]   
iWork.com allows you to share and collaborate with your documents similar to Google docs.  Note, currently iWork.com is not quite up to par. Also, it is a separate subscription to MobileMe, though it is free for trial/demo.
In sum: an excellent machine with excellent Hardware, Software and Service and with exciting possibilities for the near future.