ID: B0012Y89JW-R3PHOEVKUYBP3O-A3U5DZXOQGHSKV
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-XSI-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A3U5DZXOQGHSKV
ReviewerName: Rob "Do-it-yourselfer"
Date: October 23, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: My first SLR & loving it !
Content:
This is my first DSLR camera so I give you a review from a newbies, first-hands on point of view. So far I have not used many of the features other than auto program but let me tell you I am getting some NICE shots and so far I am pleasantly pleased. I researched this camera for a while and it was a toss up from this or the T1i. The latter having HD video and about 3 more megapixels in resolution. Well I didn't choose the T1I because I really don't need video capabilities on my camera, that's what camcorders are for. Also, should the video feature go bad, so could the camera itself ( remember DVD/VHS combos? ). Having said that here's my opinion so far.
      The quality of pics with the kit lens is amazing. Im getting some pics that make point and shoot look like cell phone pics. The feel, look and construction of the camera is good and the ones who feel otherwise are spoiled by their $5000 cameras. For the money you cannot go wrong, this baby will not dissapoint. However the kit lens was not enough for me and my intended purpose ( landscape, wildlife photography for which I got a Canon EFS 55-250mm with IS ) Not to say it is bad, it is perfect for every day use. I will still use it for family, indoor shots as the 55-250 is a bit too zoomie for indoor use. I recommend the Canon gadget bag for your XSI as it compliments each other well. I will not get too technical with this review, as I know poeple read these in order to make a purchasing decision.
      Bottom line, if you never owned a DSLR camera this is the one to get. Simple to use, good build and looks and excellent performance. Fast shutter speed and come on it's a Canon, you can't go wrong with it. Don't be fooled by others that say Canon lenses are plasticky and have plastic mounts, that's all a bunch of hogwash. They are plastic but still have a sturdy build feel to it and besides it is a sensitive electronic equipment. Not designed to be banged around and if you do bang your camera then maybe photography is not for you.