ID: B001FA1NEQ-R2FDIBW0BOJRNO-A1RK5JNI942KVU
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Black-Generation-Previous-Model
ReviewerID: A1RK5JNI942KVU
ReviewerName: Porcelain
Date: October 17, 2008
Helpful: 34 of 39
Rating: 5.0
Title: Sleek, Sexy, Reliable
Content:
I got my pink 8 GB a few weeks ago and I absolutely adore it.  I also have a 160GB Ipod which does wonders, but because of the bulk and size of the 160GB I can't put it into my pockets, and when I put it into my purse and absent mindlessly set my purse down my ears buds get yanked out of my ears in a painful way.  So I've tried to combat the problem by carrying it in my hand, or using a case with a clip, still uncomfortable and the cases were blocky and unappealing.  Unfortunately while waiting for the bus I would get many looks of "I'm going to steal your Ipod." Never fun.
So I decided to pick up this little gem, fits in my pocket, the battery life is wonderful at about 24 hours, the screen is surprisingly clear and bright.  It's so slim it can fit anywhere.  The features are great, being able to shake your Ipod and have it switch to another song is a quirky fun idea.  You have to give it a good shake.
For those who are worried about the cover art kicking in, or while running or jogging it switches to a different track..you really shouldn't worry!  I'm trusting that fellow Ipod users know to switch it into hold mode whenever it is in your pocket, (or wherever else) due to the click wheel being able to turn the vol up and down and your battery draining in case a surface, like the inside of your pockets rubs up against it and makes the backlight be on constantly.  I use to put any of my older ipods straight into hold mode as soon as I was done picking a song.
It's the same with this little player, put it on hold mode and cover flow will not be turned on when your player rests sideways, as well as the shake and switch feature will not comply, so you can run, jog and do whatever without having to worry.
This is a solid player, portable, with all the great vibrant colours, you can pick your favourite.
It does feel quite fragile however for being so thin, but there are many great case choices online to combat this.  Clear plastic cases that don't add so much bulk or block the colour/style of the player will do the trick!