ID: B0017YUX5A-R2F5HKE4WMLZCZ-A3PMYU1IMVOEU0
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3670-WindTunnel-Anniversary-Canister
ReviewerID: A3PMYU1IMVOEU0
ReviewerName: jon doe
Date: July 12, 2009
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 1.0
Title: Replaced a Kenmore Progressive Vacuum
Content:
3/4/2010 update
I live near a major city. I found that there are no authorized Hoover repair centers in my city.
I was told I would have to drive 45 miles one way to the nearest one and have the broken parts inspected and approved for warranty replacement.This is the worst customer service.
I will never buy anything Hoover again.
UPDATE 2/21/2010
Well today the plastic at the top of the wand cracked making this non usable for floors. I emailed Hoover about what I needed to do about warranty repairs.That was a joke-they took over a week to respond and then gave me a list of service centers all over 75 miles from my home. Hoover sucks and I will never buy anything from them again.I have a 3 year warranty that is useless.
UPDATE 2/7/2010
BUYER BEWARE!
Well the hose cracked at the base after less than 6 months of use!
Of course this is beyond the Amazon return window-
I purchased this based on others reviews here.
It was to replace an older Kenmore Progressive vacuum.
Amazon shipping was very fast and the box arrived OK.
The vacuum was easy to put together-no tools needed.
The suction is great, the floor brush is huge and has a swivel head that makes it easy to get into tight spaces.
The power nozzle works well but does not have any height adjustment.
The dusting brush looks strange but works well.
I had no problem with the hose kinking or folding over on itself as others posted.
The vacuum seems to follow you well and the 360 degree hose swivel works nice. It will not pull over the cord unless you pull up on the front of it as others have posted.
Overall it seems well made.The variable power is nice and better than a suction control slide on the handle. The power switch on the canister itself will take some getting used to.
I am very happy with the quality and function for the price.I recommend it as a guy who does not like to vacuum.
Our house is single story, mostly laminate flooring, tile entryway, a few throw rugs and 1 bedroom has wall to wall carpet.