ID: B0019FJM7W-RSRYN7B655NT5-AHN86VFJIJ2JP
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-E520-Digital-Camera-Stabilization
ReviewerID: AHN86VFJIJ2JP
ReviewerName: Boston Book Addict
Date: May 28, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great camera for a beginning DSLR user
Content:
Prior to using this camera I shot a lot on a film SLR camera as well as a point and shoot camera.  However as I began taking more and more photos for my blog I realized I wanted more features and the ability to use interchangeable lenses.  I got this camera because it seemed like a good DSLR to grow into.  It had a good range of features and was at a very affordable price point compared to the DSLR category as a whole.  I also liked the reviews it got in Consumer Reports.
I also liked that I could shoot in automatic mode now using the various settings and eventually use more in manual mode.  So far it has lived up to my expectations.  Even though I don't take advantage of all he features and am still learning I get my money's worth.
Among the features I appreciate about the camera is all the different automatic settings.  These are great if you're not comfortable with shooting in manual mode yet.  That said, I've noticed that many point and shoot cameras have more modes.  For example, a friend has a different Olympus model (point and shoot) that has a food mode.  Given I am a food blogger it's one setting I WISH I had.  However, you still do get quite a range of modes and they fit most of my needs well.
I also like that as far as a DSLR goes, this one isn't too cumbersome.  Yes, there are smaller ones on the market, especially with the micro four-thirds market, but this one is manageable.  I can tuck it into a large purse or normal sized backpack without worrying about it.  It's still large enough that I don't take it along to bars or parties much, however this would be true for me of most DSLR's on the market.
Does it take better quality pictures with a point and shoot?  Overall, my experience is that it does.  I imagine that the picture quality would be even better for someone with more DSLR or general photography experience.  Since I'm shooting primarily in automatic I'm not getting quite the results I hoped for and still have to tinker, but I attribute this to me not the camera.  I don't think that for a novice it necessarily makes for better pictures but co-workers who are more experienced than me tell me the quality is superb.  I'm hoping to get there some day.  That said, I'm very satisfied with the quality I get for my skill level but it certainly won't make your photos look professional if your skills aren't (again, something I fault myself for NOT the camera).
Overall this is a great camera.  I've been very happy with the size, quality of pictures, and range of functions.  I highly recommend it for a beginner who is looking to get a DSLR, but wants to start at an affordable price point.