ID: B001F7AHXW-R195HFPZFGAP9Q-A1EVV74UQYVKRY
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-classic-Silver-Generation-Previous
ReviewerID: A1EVV74UQYVKRY
ReviewerName: K. Groh
Date: September 12, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: What More is There to Say??
Content:
It's hard to believe but this is the first iPod I have owned. There is not much else to add to what others say except that since it took me so long to buy one, I figured I would get one that held a ton of stuff. I have just about my entire CD collection (over 800 disks) plus a movie and have tons of room to continue adding.
It is easy to use for a first timer and iTunes is simple enough to navigate around and offers a ton of options for organizing your music.
I recently used my iPod on a long trip to listen to downloaded books from a free online library. The only problem with this is that the books are one long file (17 plus hours) so if you switch out after you have been listening, you start back at the beginning of the book. There appears to be no quick way to fast forward through a long file on the iPod (you can FF but it is way too slow to get through hours of one data file).
I use it in my car with an FM transmitter Griffin iTrip Auto FM Transmitter and Auto Charger for iPod (Black)and love the ability to drive and listen without carrying all my CD cases around.
This iPod is not one of the small compact ones that fits in the palm of your hand. It is more than double the size of my son's 4BG nano and has a considerable heft in weight compared to other players but I felt that if I was going to get one, I wanted one to last for a long time and carry all my music/files.
The music files downloaded from Amazon quickly convert and appear in my iTunes folder.
This was a great price in comparison to the amount of data that can be stored. It was the perfect choice for me. 
I ended up getting one for my husband whos music collection is close to 2,000 CD's. I have created a monster because now all he wants to do is put more music on his new iPod...