ID: B001FA1NZ0-R1ZVJKCWU8V2AH-A3LHGIZ5IR3ZU9
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-shuffle-Silver-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A3LHGIZ5IR3ZU9
ReviewerName: Justin Powell "urbanidealist.com"
Date: April 17, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: Different, but innovative
Content:
I've never owned an iPod shuffle, so I not able to adequately compare it, but I can share my opinion on this one:
1. I can't believe how much storage space is in something so small. When I have this clipped to my shirt at the gym I can't even feel it. 
2. Playlists are great to have on a shuffle. I'm assuming that on older shuffles you couldn't create playlists, because there was no way of navigating them. With the voice prompts it makes playlists a possibility and I am really thankful for that. With 4gb of space, and a diverse selection of music, it would be annoying to have to skip songs all the time to find something that fits with running, or working out. 
3. I can see how apple is further distinguishing the ipod shuffle as an exercise device and creating it to be most useful in conjunction with playlists. If you don't plan on creating playlists, this is going to be frustrating. But I'm sure Apple is setting this apart as an iPod for a different use than the others. It's diversifying their product. With the increase of people using iPhones as their iPods, they needed a product to compliment that...
4. Headphones - The iPod shuffle hinges on the headphones because of the controls, but ultimately because that's where the music experience reaches our ears. I'll talk about quality of sound first: Here are my thoughts...I like the Apple earbuds for this reason: I'm not going to go to the gym and get all sweaty with my Bose in-ear headphones and the sound of the earbuds isn't that bad. Anyone out for a run complaining about quality of sound is a) not running hard enough or b) way too into thinking that they have to have the highest quality of sound all the time. (my opinion of course) Besides...there are 3rd party people already producing and making control adapters for people who need the highest quality sound while working out. 
As far as the controls go: They are easy to learn and if you make good playlists then you don't have to fiddle with them much. All of Apple's innovative products are received with some disapproval from the masses (like when they took Firewire off of the new MacBooks), but they do it for a reason. They are smart and have thought through the user experience. I don't think that they were sitting in the office reading any reviews and thinking to themselves, "Oh my gosh, they are right, the controls to shake around when you run!" But the controls are not that bad! They are easy to figure out, not hard to find, and seem to be intuitive to a degree. And if you make playlists it makes this little thing even more powerful and user friendly. That might be why one of the easiest things to do is scroll through playlists. 
To wrap up: This shuffle is different than the older ones, but hold twice as much information, is even smaller, and has the ability to navigate playlists as well as songs. Currently, only Apple headphones are compatible, but that will change soon. So if you choose to buy this, when you get home, create some playlists using the Genius in iTunes and dump a few of them on here...then you'll be able to maximize using this! Enjoy!