ID: B0017YUX5A-R1ACUN8Z0NNONZ-A2GZSHQMSZWGVH
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3670-WindTunnel-Anniversary-Canister
ReviewerID: A2GZSHQMSZWGVH
ReviewerName: Allergic
Date: January 25, 2009
Helpful: 15 of 15
Rating: 4.0
Title: Compare to Kenmore 27914
Content:
This vacuum replaced our Kenmore canister vacuum.  We have dogs and allergies and kids, all of which lead to the need for frequent vacuuming.
This model has a telescoping arm, a 3 filter system, and several hand tool pieces.  The powered brush can be turned off with a switch on the handle.  However, the vacuum has a separate on/off switch as well as a vacuum suction strength switch on the body.  
The powered hand tool has a spinning brush.  However, it is not directly powered.  It seems to work by the vacuum suction turning the brush.  So if you press too hard, or even medium hard, you will stop the rotation.  The suction power also seems puny.  That said, the Kenmore hand tool was similarly weak, and ours made a horrendous screech after a year of use.  Also note the Hoover does not have a place to store the hand power tool so it is in a closet in our house and I am sure we will eventually lose track of it.
The Hoover is more plastic than the Kenmore and therefore feels less durable.  We have had ours for about 4 months now without anything breaking, however.  The cord retraction feels less durable than the Kenmore.
Our Kenmore had 2 features this does not.  One is there were LED lights on the end of the nozzle.  So if you disconnected the powered brush, there was still light to see what you were doing.  Also, there was a dirt indicator light which would turn green when the area you were cleaning was clean.  I never trusted that so it wasn't useful to me but my wife liked it.
The Hoover has 2 features the Kenmore did not.  First the bags are cheaper. 6.99 for 3 Hoover bags as opposed to 8.99 for 2 Kenmore bags.  The second is the exhaust is out the top of the unit not the back.  So you can sit the base upright on the stairs and not obstruct the exhaust.
Finally, I think the Hoover is doing a better job cleaning.  The house seems less dog hairy and dusty than with the Kenmore.  It is a somewhat unfair comparison as I am comparing the end of the Kenmore life to a brand new Hoover.  
We are very happy with the Hoover.