ID: B001I902HS-R1SPSLS4IZK5YM-A31RCQE7OLFKPS
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Panasonic-MC-CG885-OptiFlow-Lightweight-Canister
ReviewerID: A31RCQE7OLFKPS
ReviewerName: Christian Davis
Date: October 27, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: A diamond in the rough
Content:
I have never written an online review before this moment, but I feel compelled to after my first experience using this machine.  I picked this vacuum because it was light, services a number for surfaces - from my high pile shag rug to hardwood floors, and seems of relatively high quality compared to similarly priced models.
I was not dissapointed. It has enough height adjustment (4 levels) to perform well in any scenario. The suction power is impressive for such a small lightweight canister. The filtering, although I am not able to particle count the emissions, seems well up to snuff - and the exhaust hepa filter seems well sealed.
The add on tools are totally sufficient. The upholstery tool, while small, works perfectly to clean the sofa, chairs, or drapes. There is some amount of suction control on the machine-  which is accomplished by a dial that covers or uncovers an opening on the wand. It is not as refined as motor speed control, but it allows for some flexibility.
The cord length is very good and the cord rewind is a breeze to use. The machine packs up very well, and fits in a very small space.
Finally, the build of the vacuum seems to be of good quality - which is why at the end of the day i chose this vacuum over the well reviewed Hoover Windtunnel - which to be fair has more features and attachments. Quality build to me, is more important than the extra features- not to mention, the bags are far superior for maintaining air quality, especially when emptying the vacuums contents. IT should also be noted, that because no particles are allowed into the motor/fan chamber, the expected life of the vacuum motor should be increased.
Enough said. I'm impressed and i would recommend this vacuum for a small apartment or house.
Happy shopping.