ID: B001NGO27W-RT3EUFWS8U38A-A2S3E0AGUM2KDR
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-2600-Central-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A2S3E0AGUM2KDR
ReviewerName: R. Frantz "Tough Sell"
Date: April 12, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Coffee Maker Done Right
Content:
We needed a new coffee maker and after reading the reviews for the 1200 ( too many quality issues ) I thought maybe Cuisinart read the writing on the wall and decided to go all out and build a better product with the 2600. Seems they did. Everything about this machine is user friendly. It took some time to figure out how fine to grind our coffee ( we buy only whole beans ) but with the KitchenAid grinder we have set on #6 ( very fine- much more so than canned coffee ) and the Cuisinart set on the 'bold' setting with seven well-rounded scoops from a normal coffee scoop ( I don't use the scoop that came with the machine because it's too small ) we are treated to 14 cups of very strong, very tasty coffee. We learned to keep the carafe temp set on 'low' to save energy and because it keeps the coffee at just the right temp up to four hours after brewing. Be careful with the 'medium' or 'high' settings, they can singe your tastebuds. 
Getting water into the machine is a little tough because of the small opening. But I use a 'Brita' pitcher so filling is much easier. Some have stated in their reviews that sometimes water will leak out and puddle while brewing. I wonder how many know there is a hole in the back of the machine where the water is held so that over-filling is prevented?
All in all the Cuisinart 2600 is a well designed, multifeatured coffee maker that gets the job done. What more can you ask? This is one of those 'no-brainer' purchases that is guaranteed to bring a smile to your face everytime you see the carafe full and waiting. Cuisinart has put a lot of time and effort into making a machine that performs well the first time and everytime. As I stated earlier it's a coffee maker 'done right'.