ID: B0017YUX5A-R3OFUFS3D67CSD-A3E19AMDB8PMBT
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3670-WindTunnel-Anniversary-Canister
ReviewerID: A3E19AMDB8PMBT
ReviewerName: Claire
Date: November 2, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 9
Rating: 1.0
Title: Avoid this pathetic, low quality vacuum cleaner
Content:
It is rare for us to buy something only to later return it, but that is where we find ourselves with the Hoover S3670 WindTunnel Canister.  We appreciate Amazon for allowing us to do that fairly easily.
This is the third vacuum cleaner we have had in the past 18 years.  The first one, a Kenmore canister, lasted about 14 years and actually still works to a degree.  We replaced it with a very similar Kenmore which worked well for about a year, then performed poorly for a few more while we became increasingly annoyed with it.
So we set out last month to buy another vacuum with the criteria being a) not a Kenmore, b) a canister, c) has a "beater bar" (Hoover calls it the WindTunnel power nozzle), and d) has a separate hard floor brush attachment.  We ended up with the Hoover S3670 since it had these things along with a reasonable price.  The reviews were mixed although slightly positive.
Our first impression taking it out of the box was how cheaply made the unit feels.  The hose is very stiff and seems like something that will kink and develop a hole in it.  The hoses on our previous vacuums were far more flexible and had a glossy shrink-wrap feel to it - this Hoover hose is just a cheap plastic hose.
The cord retractors in our other vacuums worked well initially, but then gradually became worse over time.  This Hoover skipped the working well portion of the journey, pulling in the cord fairly weakly.  It is best used if you line up the cord to help it out.
But let's face it: The suction on a vacuum cleaner is the main thing.  Unlike some other reviews, we found that the suction on this Hoover, well, sucks.  It was pushing around dirt and required us to literally place it atop crumbs to pick them up.
The electronic full bag indicator also lit up all the way after not much use even though the bag was much closer to completely empty than full.  Even after changing the bag to a brand new one, the bag full indicator stayed on.
The last straw was when the carpet agitator (AKA Windtunnel power nozzle or beater bar) started making a very unhealthy squeaking noise.
So after a few weeks of ownership, it is now all packed up and ready to go back to Amazon.  We are back to the drawing board in our quest for a new vacuum cleaner and now we can add e) not a Hoover, onto the criteria list.