ID: B0012Y88QQ-R22ORAMQQ84Y2Z-A3D56IGUKCXSDD
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A3D56IGUKCXSDD
ReviewerName: L. Shuler
Date: May 3, 2008
Helpful: 232 of 260
Rating: 5.0
Title: The next/best thing from Canon
Content:
We'll start with what this camera is NOT:
1) It's NOT a full-frame camera.  That means it's smaller, lighter, and the resulting 1.6x crop factor is important to remember if you have EF lenses already.  But because it's smaller it offers less features making it easier to use at the expense of being slightly less functional.  These are, for the most part, obscure features nobody will ever use anyway. Also, because it doesn't have features like 6.5 fps, a pentaprism, and Flash Exposure Bracketing, it is less expensive than the x0D series.
2) The XSi is NOT a point-and-shoot digicam.  Don't expect it to do videos, sound, or to incorporate all kinds of convenient uber-automation.  While 'cool', this automation usually just keeps you from controlling what you want to do yourself.  Most of the time, this camera will stay in "P" or "program mode" for me.  There is a green setting for point-and-shoot operation, but all this does is disable most of the features that you buy the camera for. 
2a) Live View is NOT the same as the LCD viewfinder on point-and-shoot digicams.  Don't expect it to focus fast or provide the same functionality.  Live View is intended for a camera mounted on a tripod or held steady.  It is a GREAT way to get perfect focus when you need it.  You just zoom in to 10x magnification and manually focus or let the contrast detection do it for you.  But, it is NOT an LCD viewfinder.  As long as you don't think it will be (I was stupid enough to think that way) then you know before you buy.
The bad: (in all fairness, these are true of most modern DSLR's)
1) The battery is improved, yes, but it's REALLY expensive.  I bought a generic battery for a backup.  Keeping the Canon battery fully charged, of course, and only using the generic when the Canon is charging.
2) The LCD screen is right where my nose and cheek go.  You can't avoid getting the glass all dirty and that gets annoying.  And if the S5 can have an articulated 2.5" screen, why can't the XSi?
3) A cheesy rubber cover.  I like that all of the inputs are on the side, but I just hate these cheesy rubber covers.  I would prefer a sliding cover or, better yet, use the space next to the SD slot.
4) Battery door on the bottom.  On my tripod, I can't access the battery without removing the camera from the tripod.  This was also an issue with my first two digital Rebels.
Now, we'll do a reality check:
1) To those who say, "It's only 12mp," they're right.  But, understand that unless you're printing bigger than 8x10", this resolution is better than adequate.  In fact, the majority of the lenses out there don't have sufficient resolution to go above 12 megapixels.  What I mean is that you can have a 100 megapixel camera but your lens is only really pushing out 10mp worth of quality resolution, what's the point?  Many point-and-shoots have too much resolution for their lenses.  Just try blowing up a typical 10mp p-&-s image to 8x10 and see what you get.  Chances are, the 8mp sensor from the Digital Rebel XT did better.  
2) Some will say "It feels flimsy."  I completely disagree.  It feels solid and durable to me.  Now, if you don't know this already, the plastic is actually a covering and environmental seal.  Underneath, there is a stainless steel frame that holds everything solid.  Your strap attaches to the frame directly as does the lens mount, tripod mount, and sensor.  The plastic isn't structural so however it might FEEL to you, the camera is, in reality, stronger than you might think.  Now, I can understand if you're used to tough magnesium shells that you might be prejudiced against the plastic, however this camera costs hundreds less.  One cannot justify criticizing the Rebel series if they aren't willing to pay the extra for the x0D series.
3) Critics say that APS-C is going to be obsolete.  That's absurd!  Remember that there are now scores of APS-C lenses from Canon, Nikon, Pentax, Sony, Sigma, Tamron, and Tokina and those numbers continue to grow.  Further, APS-C cameras are selling like hotcakes without any sign of slowing down.  These people are the same ones that kept their Reel-to-Reel players because they were higher quality.  Higher quality, yes, but you can't say that CD's aren't going to sell well because reel-to-reel is higher quality.  APS-C is becoming the DSLR equivalent of what 35mm film was.  Meanwhile, so-called "full-frame" sensor cameras are going the way of older 6x7 and 645 film cameras.  They are limited to professionals and high-end enthusiasts.  Why?  Film was limited and topped out at resolution long ago.  To get higher resolution, you needed bigger film.  Not true with digital sensors.  APS-C has not maxed out on resolution yet.  Smaller sensors haven't even hit their stride.  There is no reason sensors cannot hit 20-30 megapixels in an APS-C in the near future, but why?  The lenses are still the limiting factor.  In fact, it might be true soon that SMALLER will be better.  As sensors get better, they can get smaller.  It's cheaper to make a four-thirds or APS-C than a full-frame of the same quality level.
Here's where I get to play designer... what does the XSi need?
1) Articulating LCD.  Like I said earlier, if Canon can add the articulating 2.5" screen to their S5 camera for $350 total, why in the world can't they put it on their best-selling DSLR?
2) Sliding door for the inputs.  Cheesy rubber covers are not as cool as designers think they are.  Why can't Canon just put one environmentally sealed door for the battery, SD card, and all the inputs?  And, hey, why not put it on the side so you can access it while the camera is on the tripod?
3) Why all the inputs?  Just have one USB slot to connect to the computer, to the TV, and use the same USB port for a DC input?  
4) One dial?  Why not two? The Pentax K20D allows you instant access to the aperature with one dial, shutter with the other. Cool.
5) Where did FEB go?  Flash Exposure Bracketing?  They had it on the XTi.  Why did they take it away from me?