ID: B001E532ZA-R27FF9XCQTOIJ4-A2WXKDWBDHNG3D
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Bosch-TAS4511UC-Tassimo-Single-Serve-Coffee
ReviewerID: A2WXKDWBDHNG3D
ReviewerName: CM
Date: March 7, 2009
Helpful: 19 of 21
Rating: 3.0
Title: Adequate but not outstanding
Content:
I have this machine at home and purchased a Breville K-cup brewer for the office.  After several months using both, I can now identify the strengths and weaknesses of both units.  
1. Latte/Cappucino Quality
The Bosch unit was my choice for home since I predominately drink lattes.  Lattes (I've tried both the Gevalia and Maxwell House espressos in them) are okay - they took some getting used to.  Latte production is uneven - sometimes they come out very watery, sometimes all the "milk" is not ejected from the t-disc into the cup, and sometimes they come out overly "milky". If you are at all fussy about your lattes/cappucinos think twice about buying a t-disc unit - this is definitely not a replacement for an espresso maker. The Bosch is marginally more convenient than an espresso maker, primarily because of the cleaning required (see below).
2. Coffee Quality
As far as coffee goes the quality produced by both units is pretty good as is the selection of coffees available for each. If you are a Starbucks only person you will have to go with the t-disc unit (Bosch). The Breville unit produces a more consistent beverage temperature, but the Bosch produces hotter beverages most of the time.
3. Adjusting the Strength and Size of your beverage
While you can adjust coffee strength and cup size on both units, it is FAR easier to do on the Breville unit and the results are reliable and repeatable. The Bosch does allow you to brew stronger or weaker but it is a guessing game to do it (during regular brewing you can push the brew button again and again to make the coffee stronger and after the regular brew cycle you can push the button to add water to make the coffee weaker)and I defy anyone to consistently produce coffee of the desired strength. 
4. Cleaning/maintenance
The Breville wins easily here - no cleaning required between uses.  You can brew a cup of coffee and then a cup of tea with no trace of coffee taste or aroma in your tea.  NOT the case with the Bosch; your tea will taste like coffee if you don't clean the unit between cups.  And you need to clean the brew spout assembly very frequently or the unit won't make your beverage properly and will spatter all over the counter.  If you make beverages with "milk" you must clean the unit after every cup. And cleaning the spout assembly is a pain in the rear - your have to take it out of the machine, dissasemble it completely, scrub it (just rinsing won't work), then reassemble and re-install. Your counter will stay cleaner with the Breville as well - regardless of the size of cup used there is no spatter on your counter and very little on the machine.  Unless you use a cup that comes up close under the brew spout on the Bosch you will end up with coffee splattered all over your counter and machine.  Both units come with water filters the filter in the Breville lasts far longer than the one in the Bosch.
5. Cost
K-cups are cheaper - way cheaper. If you shop sales on Amazon and sign up for auto shipping you can get coffee and tea for 34 to 50 cents a cup in K-cup format but will spend 55 cents to 1.10 per cup for T-disc beverages.  Also, you can reduce per cup cost further with the Breville as it includes an adapter that allows you to use your own coffee. There is also and adapter that allows you to use coffee pods in the Breville.
6. Durability
Again, the Breville is better here.  Fifteen people use the Breville in my office and have been making 30-plus beverages every day for the last 6 months with no problems. Nothing on the machine has broken and it still looks like new.  Only I use the Bosch at home and make on average 2 beverages a day and have already (in three months of use) had to order a replacement for the brew spout assembley because the rubber on the first one ripped during the frequent cleaning required to keep the unit working properly.