ID: B001MS6NP0-R2SX3HDIY5YBK6-A3G87HHZANMKH4
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VAIO-VGN-CS215J-14-1-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A3G87HHZANMKH4
ReviewerName: W. Zhang
Date: September 3, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 1.0
Title: POS
Content:
I have the white version of this product(Vaio VGN-CS215J)
Pros: pretty to look at
Cons: 
1. uneven or wobbly base.  At first, I thought it was one of those rubber feet on the bottom that's sticking out too much, but upon careful inspection, I find that the entire plastic casing is warped.  It's a flaw in their production process; it's cheaply made, so to speak, not of good build quality, although the pretty surface would give you an otherwise impression.  I then went to my local Fry's and Best Buy's that carry this product and found that ALL of them have this wobbly base.  In fact, not only the CS 215 series, but the entire CS series MIGHT have this wobbly base problem.  Check your product to see if it has an uneven or wobbly base.
You'll have to check carefully to find this problem.  I tried it on different table surfaces, even including a piece of thick glass.  The result is the same, however: the base is uneven.  To remedy the wobbly base, I am using a piece of paper, folded several times, and tucking it underneath one corner to make it even, when I type.
2. glossy display.  I didn't discover this problem until about two days ago, when I started to use it heavily in a branch of Los Angeles Public Library.  Under those bright florecent lights overhead in the library, it is very difficult--and uncomfortable--to see the text on the screen.  Even in a not well-lit setting, like right now, in a Starbucks Coffee, during the day time, the objects behind me are being reflected on the screen, interfering with the text displayed on the screen!  It's a very dissatisfying experience!!!
I bought the laptop this past February from Best Buy.  I did not use it that much, because I was living in a house and was using my desktop mainly.  I noticed the glossy display problem only about two or three days ago, when I started to use the laptop heavily, as my main comp.  This is a huge problem for me, to be honest, because I have to do a lot of work in the library.  Called Sony support; they said they could not do much; they advised me to send the unit to their service center to let them have a look see.  I told them I do not believe their so-called service center, and I would be inconvenienced with the down time of sending the unit to them and waiting for the unit to be returned to me.  And most importantly, the glossy display and the warped casing are not something that their service center could correct.  They are design flaws.  So to wrap it up, Sony has basically told me that I am screwed, because I bought their shoddy product!
Check your unit, seriously, see if it has a wobbly base, and if the glossy display interferes with your reading underneath a bright light.  If you find these problems, call Sony support, let them know this problem.  If they are rude to you, maybe we can start a class action suit against them.  As consumers, we have certain rights, too, right?