ID: B001NPDKUI-R3U9W3SDSAD8M3-ARY8ONZQWOK9E
Category: Laptops
Product: HP-Pavilion-G60-230US-16-0-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: ARY8ONZQWOK9E
ReviewerName: W. Bills "Book lover"
Date: September 20, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 2.0
Title: 8" of Dead Pixels & counting
Content:
I bought this computer in April 2009 from Staples.  It worked fine until about a month ago.  I turned it on & there were a few dead (black) pixels across the bottom.  Every time I turn it on there are more dead pixels -- now the longest stretch of dead ones is over 8" long with 4-6 more rows of dead pixels that are 4" long.
I spent a long time chatting with "customer service" (there's an oxymoron....).  They want me to ship it back to them for "service".  I said, "No -- I did not pay for a refurbished computer.  I bought a NEW computer."  After reading these dismal reviews on Amazon (for which I am very grateful) I realize that working with HP is a hopeless venture.
They have told me that it has been escalated to a manger who will call me back within 48 hours.  I've read time & again online that others have been given that song & dance & have never been called.
We had also just bought two other HP's over the summer along three HP printers.  If they don't make it right, i.e., replace this with a brand new computer (since that's what I paid for!) I will never, ever buy another HP product & I will make certain that everyone I know hears of my experience with HP "quality".
It just seems to me that once a company outsources, their customer service goes down the toilet.  We are dealing with persons who are reading off of a script & who cannot "think".  Very frustrating for the consumer!
UPDATE:  I was finally (after quite a few requests) turned over to a U.S. based customer service person who was very helpful.  I sent the computer in to HP at their expense.  They removed the bad screen entirely & replaced it with a new one.  It has worked fine ever since.  I am glad that the experience ended positively in the end.  Sometimes you just have to continue to ask to be moved up the ladder to a higher level customer service rep, & it is also helpful to insist on a U.S. based rep (if that's where you live) because in my experience, they are more helpful.