ID: B001NEK30E-R2CVT5CSAX6CRU-A28LFOKZYCJQ9L
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-A355-S6940-16-0-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A28LFOKZYCJQ9L
ReviewerName: Cindy Burke "Cindy Burke"
Date: February 10, 2009
Helpful: 32 of 33
Rating: 5.0
Title: A Fast Laptop for Work + Excellent Video and Audio Quality
Content:
This Toshiba Satellite replaced a four-year-old Dell Inspiron. As a writer, I use my laptop every day and wanted a comfortable keyboard and touchpad. This Satellite delivers with a sturdy keyboard, enough space to rest your palms comfortably while typing and a textured touchpad. 
The touchpad has touch scrolling on both the right side and bottom (handy for scrolling along large spreadsheets), so you don't have to hold down the left-click button to scroll--much easier on the hand. The touchpad scrolling settings are adjustable and can be removed. 
The click buttons are large and placed so that your palms don't brush them while you type. 
I also wanted a laptop with excellent video quality for watching DVDs and Play Now features from NetFlix. Videos are crisp and colorful on this 16-inch screen and it's easy to see from several angles (unlike my old LCD-screen where the screen had to be tilted just exactly right to avoid the black shadow effect). 
If you like to watch movies in bed on the computer with your honey, this computer is great for that since both people can see the screen without black shadowing. The light-up DVD controls on the top of the keyboard are also a great feature for watching DVD's in bed.
The speakers are very good quality, with excellent range and can be turned up loud enough to enjoy music or watch a movie from another part of the room. 
My most favorite feature of this computer is the volume control. Located on the front, next to the 5:1 memory card reader and headphone jack, is a small wheel that turns left and right, like the volume control on a radio. 
It's so simple, it's brilliant! When you have music blasting and the phone rings with a call from a client, a quick flip of the dial and the sound is turned down or off. No more hunting on the keyboard for the Function Key + a picture of a muted speaker.
The Satellite has a built-in webcam that is easily activated with a click. The webcam controls appear whenever your mouse hovers near the left side of the screen. 
Speaking of hovering controls, whenever you press the FN (Function) key, a large legend appears at the top of the screen with function controls, which is handy when you don't have your glasses.
All four USB ports are on the sides near the front, as is the network port. It is easier to plug and unplug components, but it's also easier to bump my USB drive when picking up something from my desk. 
Did I mention that this computer is blazingly fast? Wow! Need to have five different programs running plus several web pages open? Not a problem for this zippy laptop.
I've been very happy with the Toshiba Satellite and would highly recommend it.