ID: B00196V7UQ-R23XIFKNAATFP8-A2B3ARZG15J8SC
Category: Laptops
Product: Dell-Inspiron-1526-processor-capability
ReviewerID: A2B3ARZG15J8SC
ReviewerName: CAS64 "Carrie"
Date: January 1, 2009
Helpful: 9 of 10
Rating: 1.0
Title: Very Disappointed!
Content:
I've used Dells since the early 90's because of their solid products and excellent service, but no more!  We purchased the Inspiron a little over a year ago ~14-16 months ago.  When it arrived the sound didn't work, right out of the box.  I spent hours and hours on the phone to get it fixed.  Then one of the USB ports quit working.  I wasn't going to spend hours on the phone again so I just went without and used the others.  About a month ago it began shutting down on it's own without any recent changes or pattern to what was causing it.  I called tech support and of course it was out of warranty.  They charged me $50 dollars and told me if it was a virus they couldn't fix it.  After hours on the phone again, the first person couldn't fix it and told me they were going to transfer me to "another department" I asked if that was going to cost me more money.  The told me no.  But when I got to the next dept they wanted another $85 dollars - as they put it - because I had been talking to hardware support and they were software support.  I felt suckered.  If I would have known upfront that I was only talking to hardware support and it could cost me more for software support I would have never gone down that path.  I requested to talk to the manager and they did refund my original $50.  But I was still left me to fix it on my own.  I had a back up so I ended up restoring the computer to it's factory settings.  But when I was done, it still shut down on its own.  The fan whirrs and the computer shuts down, so something is causing the HD to spin out of control.  The HD has bad sectors but I don't know if caused by the auto shut downs or I have a bad HD.  So now I have a hardware issue and need to take it to a repair shop.  If the computer was 2-3 years old, I'd be more understanding.  When I pay that much for a computer I expect it to last more than a year!  But you can't get anything with a longer warranty these days unless you're willing to pay thru the nose.    Also, I might think this was a fluke and I just got a lemon, however... I have a Dell Latitude for work and I'm on my 3rd one in less than a year.  I'm not rough on my laptops.  I run virus & spyware software.  I only run "name brand" programs.  I don't do alot of number crunching or gaming.  I primary just use office, email, and the internet & IPod.  I have padded carrying bags, I never drop them, I only use them indoors in a clean, dry, cool setting...  There's no reason I should have these issues other than a poorly built product and a company that doesn't stand behind their products by providing terrible service.