ID: B001P05NKG-R1GTE0S8W674PC-A2CXU4DOAHLBU8
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB990LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2CXU4DOAHLBU8
ReviewerName: Robert Shah
Date: September 14, 2009
Helpful: 33 of 138
Rating: 1.0
Title: Do not Attem to order this through Amazon
Content:
I placed my order on Sep 4th, and since I wanted to split my order into 2 charges with 2 different Credit Cards, I noticed I could not, and therefore I called Amazon's Customer service, and they told me that I could not do it, so I simply said, OK I will go to Apple site, and buy it there, and the customer service rep said, well what you can do is to buy a Gift Certificate with one of your cards, you get an e-mail right away from Amazon with that number, and use that, with your other card, and the problem is solved. It sounded simple, and I did it. I waited 1 hour, and 2 and 3, and then called Amazon again, and they said to wait couple of hours, and I will get it. I waited until 12AM Sep 5th (since I wanted to go out of US, and needed to do this before leaving), and they assured me by the time I am up, I will have that number in my in-box.
Next day there was nothing from Amazon, so again I called, and this time I was assured by 5PN that day the number will be there. At 6PM it was there, and I used it and made a 1279 dollars purchase.
Amazon tried to put 3 charges, each 1279 through my Bank, therefore they stopped all of them, and I did not know about any since I was out of the country, until Sep10th(which was the date, I was suppose to get the shipment delivered to my house0. Again I had to call Amazon for almost 6 more times, and every time some joker was telling me, that let me know your Bank phone number, and we will take care of it, and for 4 days this went on, and on. I called Amazon again, since daily I was getting e-mails from them saying my order has not gone through, because of insufficient funds in my account. I called, and asked the rep what is going on, and after her trying not to answer my questions, she said let's call your Bank, and talk to them directly(I am not sure if you have tried to call your bank directly these days or not, but it is not an easy task) but we did anyhow, and my bank's rep told the Amazon rep, that the reason the charges were denied, has been the quantities of them, and she said in the past 2 days alone, Amazon has requested 5 times, the amount of 1279 dollars(If you remember I bought it a 500 gift certificate, and the true charge should have been 779 dollars), so I told my bank give a verbal OK with Authorization number to Amazon Rep and let's get this thing resolve once and for ever, and when she tried, Amazon refuse to accept it, and told me that I have to cancel my order and order this again, and when I asked her to let me talk to your manager, and why did you ask to have my bank online, if you knew that later on you will refuse their Authorization, she put me on eternal hold, and then I got cut off.
So I tried to cancel my order, but the system would not let me, so I called Amazon again, and asked to talk to a manager, and every time you call you have to tell your whole story otherwise you will not get an opportunity to talk to a manager. When I told him that, he said no Robert, you do not have to do this, and we are putting your order through, and charge you 779(since I did lose 7 days by then I upgraded the shipping, and after 500 dollars gift certificate, my charge out of my bank account raised to 809.00), and he said he will e-mail me about our talk, and this amount, and do not worry about anything Robert, TRUST ME.
Believe it or not I never got an e-mail, and on Sunday 13th, Amazon went ahead and charged my account more than 1300 dollars, and since I did not expected them they will do that, and I got assured the total amount after 500 dollars gift certificate will be 809.00, I went ahead, and used my ATM card for other purposes. Amazon by doing that caused my account to be over drafted and I ended up getting 100 dollars bank fee for that reason alone.
So what did I do today? Guess. Called Amazon again (this was my 17th times, since Sep 4th). They said that Amazon Gift department somehow missed giving me credit for 500 dollars, and therefore 1309 dollars went through my account instead of 809 dollars, and it will be 10 days until they can resolve this.
I wish Jeff Bezo will know these types of horror stories happening to his loyal customers. I have been Amazon's loyal customer, and even though we are not rich, we bought over 3000 dollars of goods in the past 3 months from Amazon. I swear to my mother's life, that no longer will I do business with Amazon, after this past 10 hell days. I have spent over 19 hours on the phone, and have been so upset the other day, I thought I am having a heart attack, and guess what it is still not over, and I have to deal with it another 10 days. Just for one deal. Then people say what is wrong with corporate America? This is it, lack of care, and do not giving a DAM what your customer feels, and goes through. If I would have decided the other day to go through Apple (even though their laptop price was 10 dollars less), and was not a loyal customer of Amazon, I would have been using my laptop 1 week, and already was used to it, and on top of that I would have not spent 1 hour with some Joe Shmo on Philippines, day in, and day out.
SAHAME ON AMAZON to take of customers like me and my wife this way, SHAME.
Robert Shah