ID: B00198BBQ4-R33VYCOFIIXBKA-AWPODHOB4GFWL
Category: Laptops
Product: Dell-Inspiron-1525-processor-capability
ReviewerID: AWPODHOB4GFWL
ReviewerName: Martin A Hogan "Marty From SF"
Date: November 28, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great Deal On A Laptop
Content:
AFTER you read this - check the price at Best Buy.  You might be surprised.
I can't begin to describe how cool this laptop is. It is all you need for personal or business work. I have an Acer Desktop with 1 GB of RAM and 100 GB Memory. This little guy has 4 GB of RAM and an Intel Duo Core Processor (that's basically at least twice as fast as my desktop) and 250 GB on the hard drive! Those items are critical for good, fast performance. The keyboard is perfectly typical in its layout and the mouse pad is actually sleek and slightly indented, allowing you to seamlessly run your finger over the metal. The two button pads allow for more functions. It is completely intuitive and although I prefer Windows XP Home over Vista Home (XP is faster), you can't get around that nowadays. It comes preloaded with everything you need and I actually uninstalled some unnecessary programs. I took out the Norton Virus software and put in Windows Live One Care (my preference on quality and ease of use). 
There are lots of standards that used to be extras, like the Web Cam, which transmits, records, takes pictures, etc. When you move around, it is a bit blurry, but for ordinary transmission it is right up there with most in quality. It also contains a DVD/CD burner and player, which are very fast, even though it seems terribly fragile when you open it. I like being able to have the choice of Cable DSL, dial-up and Wireless Internet. When at home I just plug in the Ethernet wire and when traveling it is very easy to get a signal just about anywhere I go, (call your service provider to get the pass code for wireless service). There is the media card insert, two USB ports and lots of standard software. You can read all of that here on the web page, but the look and feel (the keyboard is very easy on the hands and wrists) is sleek. It also comes with a one-year warranty with the option to buy more. 
Here's a little secret. Don't buy past the standard one-year warranty, as Dell will contact you within six to nine months to offer you an extended warrantee at a lesser cost. They want your business. Why pay more? I suggest getting that warrantee when it is offered. Also, a good, secure, padded carry-bag is a must. "Targus" makes great bags that are relatively inexpensive. One last note: Dell has one of the best reputations for quality computers and they have home service, meaning they come to YOU! Have fun!