ID: B0015ASYX4-R8XCPGWCL1BP3-AMSXZZHGQIW83
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Evolt-Digital-Camera-Pancake
ReviewerID: AMSXZZHGQIW83
ReviewerName: Tony Wong
Date: May 31, 2008
Helpful: 44 of 44
Rating: 5.0
Title: Sold my Canon XTi for this delightful *gem* of a camera. Love it!
Content:
I have had this E-420 with Zuiko 25mm Pancake for a month now and it is simply superb.
I sold my Canon XTi and SD700IS because I wanted a smaller/lighter system without sacrificing DSLR image quality. I got portability with my Canon P&S but not the image quality; I got DSLR image quality with the Canon DSLR but not the portability. The question was: What should I do? Well, the timing of the release of this camera/lens was perfect. And the choice to get this camera was the best choice I have made with regards to photography. Now I have the smallest, lightest DSLR camera in the world with great image quality to match any 10MP entry-level DSLR. Having owned this camera for over a month now, I have realised that I am taking 2-3 times more photographs than ever before simply because it is such a joy to take out-and-about (perfect for street photography) and the results I am getting are excellent. Want to see images from this combination? Have a look at my photostream: [...])
From using this camera, I am looking forward to exploring more of Olympus's infamous Zuiko lenses which are some of the best digital lenses in the industry. I tried the 12-60mm lens with the E-420 the other day and boy was the auto-focus speed fast! The continuous shooting is fast too: 3-4 shots (raw+super-fine jpegs) per second -- very impressive.
Because of this purchase my passion for photography has been ignited which is priceless in itself. Photography should be about taking photos without feeling restricted by what you hold in your hands. This camera gives me that freedom and confidence that I can take great photos wherever I am. Photography should be FUN! And it is certainly FUN to use this camera.
To conclude, do your research on the net on this camera and look at many photos. I am sure you will discover many other happy new owners of this camera. I have heard even some are using it not as a back-up to their pro gear but as a replacement because it is so portable! A great recommendation if ever you need one.
Happy camera hunting!