ID: B0013FJBX8-R2CS4E0IS5MQD5-A2YYTTP5KLIKP0
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB470LL-15-4-Inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: A2YYTTP5KLIKP0
ReviewerName: R. Layne "Luv2Read"
Date: December 10, 2008
Helpful: 171 of 173
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very Impressive
Content:
I'm not a gamer so this review may not be helpful to those who want a computer to play games.
I have worked as a professional software developer/architect for 17 years.  I started with MSDOS 2.0 and have ridden the Microsoft wave all the way through Vista 64 and I had a few years with UNIX.  I have personally owned or worked with computers from Dell, HP, Compaq, IBM.  I have heard of Apple products but for the most part dismissed them as more toy than tool.  (I was not alone in this perspective.)  I like Microsoft but after working with it for the better part of 20 year I decided to look at something different.
I never thought I would purchase an Apple yet here it is.  I am impressed to say the least and I see Apple as a serious tool that also makes a cool toy.
Pros:
Lightweight - Probably the lightest laptop I've ever worked with or owned
Solid - Normally when you get laptops at 15.4 or larger, chassis flex becomes evident as you can see them bend and they creak.  Yet because of its single piece construction and light weight aluminum the MacBook feels good when you need to move it.  I doesn't creak and there is no noticeable bend when lifted.
Battery Life - It just keeps going, and going, and going...  Actually I am seeing up to 4 hours life on the fully charged battery.  My previous computer never surpassed 1.75 hours.
Size - It is very thin and carrying it around is very comfortable.  I had a 17" and while I like the large display its uncomfortable to carry like a book.
Magnetic Clasp - When closing the lid the owner is rewarded with a very solid thump instead of a "creak" "clack" that you hear from so many other laptops that use a plastic display and mechanical clasp.  Opening the monitor is equally a pleasing.  You place you thumb under the lip and lift.  The laptop may slide a little on smooth surfaces but the lid comes up smooth and controlled.
Keyboard - This is a great piece of work.  Does it have "Home", "Page Up", "Page Down", the legendary "Any" key?  No.  Doesn't need it.  A little research and practice and you will find that these "missing" keys are functions of the keyboard and I don't miss them at all.  Secondly the keyboard "key-float" (that rattle you hear when you lightly stroke your finger back and forth over a laptop keyboard) is almost completely non-existent.  So when you're typing it doesn't sound like your wadding up crinkly plastic and you don't annoy your neighbors.  The key throw is short but very pleasant.  Another thing I like about the keyboard is that you don't feel like you will break the keyboard if your touch is a little heavy.
Display - The display is a work of art.  No only does it look good, but flex has been reduced to almost nothing.  It feels very solid and you don't feel you need to worry about tilting the screen from the corner.  The glass cover over the LED lit LCD display is awesome.  You can actually clean the screen without LCD screen colors distorting.  Not to mention that is automatically dims in low light and the key board lights up in the same low light conditions.  that's a nice touch.  The display brightness is every bit as bright as my desktop LCD display in strong light.
Touch Pad - Any who has tried to use the touch pads on other computers (I hate them generally) will love this touch pad.  It works like the iPhone (except scrolling is reversed for obvious reasons - you're not actually touching the screen).  The touch is light and very smooth.  Making the entire touch pad the button is brilliant, it took me almost no time to get use to it and now I nearly push a hole through the Dell touch pad before I realize I have to click the buttons.  I have no trouble with inadvertent touch that moves my cursor away from where I'm typing.
Quiet - I have yet to hear the fans.  It makes me wonder if they ever work.
DVD Superdrive - Finally!  No cup holder comes sliding out of the side of my laptop.  Just simply slide the disc in and your done.  It operates like the CD player in a car.  It is easy to eject from the screen or a key on the keyboard.
Fit and Finish - The best I've ever seen.  The only thing I've seen is a very slight misalignment of the Express Card/34 slot door.  But you really have to look close to see it.
Operating System - WOW.  Fast, no anti-virus, stable: it just works.  I won't get too much into the OS but I will say that once I understood how Apple likes things done OS X is very appealing.  Not to mention that it sleeps and wakes up faster than anything I have ever worked with.  Open the monitor and it's sitting there saying "come on, I'm tired of waiting for you".
Built-in Accelerometers - Not sure what they're good for, but they're cool.  Like the iPhone the MacBook Pro has three accelerometers.  There is an Stanford Laptop Orchestra uses MacBook Pros to make music using these accelerometers.
No Fresh Air Openings - I really dislike fresh air ports on the bottom of laptops.  They are easily plugged and they suck fuzz and dust into the heat sinks.  With my previous computers the fresh air ports were placed underneath the computer right where it sets on your legs.  The result was you ran a big risk overheating the computer.  The MacBook Pro pulls the cooling air through the keyboard and therefore has a smooth bottom making it far better to place on you lap.
CONS:
Chassis - While it is a brilliant piece of engineering there are a couple very minor issues.  
One:  Always pick the computer up with both hands.  While this is true of all laptops you want to last, it's a little more important with this one.  The metal around the ethernet port has been machined very thin which was necessary to fit the large jack in the rather narrow side of the laptop.  So if you have the monitor open and grab the laptop with you left hand and your thumb over that jack you could dent the metal around it.  It doesn't warp or twist the whole chassis, it's too strong but you could see a small indention in a otherwise straight piece of metal.  
Two:   The metal in the Battery/Hard Drive Cover is very thin and sometime appears to hang below lip of the chassis.  You really have to look to see it and it isn't all the time.  I don't think is is warped or bent, but just the natural flexibility of aluminum.
Touch Pad Click - While I absolutely love the touch pad (in fact I only use a mouse anymore when I am programming on it because of the nature of the software).  If you try to click at the top of the pad (nearest the screen) the force required to click goes up quite a bit.
Price? - Not really a Con.  Some have complained about the price.  Three and half years ago I paid $5700 for a Dell 9100 laptop (All the bells and whistles, Window XP Pro, Office Pro, the works).  It has been a great computer that has been put to pasture and my family uses it.  I've only had two problems with it.  The dreaded mexican jumping keys (a key flies off the keyboard after you press it down while typing; AKA broken key) Dell replaced the keyboard without any trouble and the hard drive crashed and needed to be replaced.  The Dell computer when new cost more than twice the MacBook Pro does today and the only thing it has over the Mac (old age and technology not withstanding) is it's 1920 x 1200 pixel display compared to the Mac's 1440 x 900 display.  If I were to order the most power 15.4 laptop Apple sells today, I would still pay half the price of the Dell and the Apple does much more and has better quality overall.
To summarize this is an accomplishment that the engineers, designers, and developers should feel proud.  There is some room for improvement but these improvements are at a level that other laptops have to improve a great deal just to achieve Apple's shortcomings.
I could go on further but I think this is enough.  Apple has truly developed a great product in both hardware and software and I recommend it highly.