ID: B0013FLU96-R2KIYUORCZN2KL-A1UOC81BOE3NS1
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB133LL-15-4-inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: A1UOC81BOE3NS1
ReviewerName: Roman815
Date: February 23, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent computer from a company with amazing customer service!
Content:
A year ago I bought a 17" 1.67Ghz Powerbook on eBay for 900 bucks. After playing with it for a week I noticed that there were white circles in the middle of the screen. In addition, the screen would go out when I adjusted it. So I took the Powerbook to the Apple Store and I was in luck because it had 6 months of warranty left on it. This had not been advertised in the eBay auction so I  had expected Apple to tell me that I was out of luck. Anyways, Apple told me that it would be one week before my Powerbook was fixed. A month later I received a call telling me that it would be at least another month before they received the parts necessary for the repair. So Apple offered me a 17" 2.5Ghz Macbook Pro in exchange for my old Powerbook even though this particular Macbook Pro model was released just a week earlier. I accepted their offer and traded in my old Powerbook, that I had bought just a month earlier, for this top of the line computer.
Since then I have used my Macbook Pro for taking notes and tests in law school, for playing Warcraft III and Call of Duty 4, for watching many movies with front row, and for picture and audio editing. This computer is magnificent and does all that I throw at it very well. The screen is very bright and the keyboard is a pleasure to use. I don't think any other laptop has a keyboard like this (high quality feel and lights up). I've had a Compaq, Dell, Powerbook, and several iBooks and this computer blows them out of the water in every regard. Even the screen on this is brighter than that of the old Powerbook. If you're into gaming then you'll really appreciate this laptop. I play Call of Duty 4 with all the setting up without any problems. 
My two complaints are that the sides of the top case started to come apart due to warping, creating a small gap, and that the button in the middle that opens the laptop is awkward and hard to use. Although nothing can be done about the button in the middle Apple did replace the case. This is obviously why Apple introduced the unibody Macbook Pro's and scrapped the button in the middle and replaced it with a magnet. 
An added bonus to this laptop is the 4 and a half hours of battery life and the magsafe connector. However, if I had a choice between this laptop and the newest version I would go for the newest one because of the unibody case and the 8 hour battery life. Nevertheless, the keyboard on this model is much better, it comes with a matte display standard, and it looks more professional since the entire laptop is silver rather than silver and black. The new model looks like a dude who just got a black eye. I suspect that any Macbook Pro will last many years and I look forward to spending the next 5 or more with this one.