ID: B001SAS5NU-RWOT8KFV899ZD-AEQWOHOVR3MLC
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Factory-Reconditioned-Dyson-12446-02-DC21-Canister
ReviewerID: AEQWOHOVR3MLC
ReviewerName: Bob
Date: December 24, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 1.0
Title: Disappointed with design and quality
Content:
I ordered this product based on the hype in the marketplace. I was very disappointed in the design and I am returning it for a refund. I saw the reviews talking about problems with the power head and decided to purchase the vacuum anyway under the assumption that people were overheating the head motors. That is not the case.
CONS:
I bought this because I needed a vacuum for hardwood floors with a few rugs. The vacuum is basically a canister version of a carpet vacuum. It does not come with a separate floor brush. You must use the beater bar with the bar turned off to vacuum a hard surface. This means that you are lugging around a heavy, compared to a simple floor brush, beater bar at all times. The extra attachments are quite small and seem fragile, but I did not test them.
I am returning the unit for a refund because of it's design and workmanship. The beater bar functioned for a few seconds and then quit. On close examination, it appears to be a design defect and/or poor manufacturing. Where the beater bar plugs into the wand is quite loose. When I examined the unit, it was clear the the plug was losing contact when the bar was twisted or shifted in certain directions. The positions where contact was lost were reasonable positions for the head. This loss of contact is probably why other people have complained about the beater bars.
The switch on the beater bar head resets to off when power is lost. Each time you lose contact because of the loose connection between the beater bar and the wand, you must reactivate the beater bar by pressing the bar "on" switch.
This problem could have been prevented through either better design and/or better manufacturing practices. I noticed two problems: first the fit between the head and the wand tube was loose. Second, the plug connection was very loose. A slight jiggle of the head resulted in power loss to the head.
PROS:
The unit is light. 
It does a fantastic job of vacuuming a rug. But, you must be careful to keep from accidentally turning off the beater bar. 
It is also very quiet.
The unit was well packaged and it is virtually impossible to determine that it is not a "new" unit.
I have had the chance to use a Dyson upright unit. The quality and design on that unit were both quite good. The fit of the plastic parts was quite good. The upright also appeared quite sturdy. I would buy an upright if I had a carpet. But, the canister unit's design needs to be revised.
The Amazon return process is quite good. One thing I learned was that choosing the option to have them contact the shipper prevents you from printing an airbill. When UPS came to deliver another Amazon order, I could not give the driver the unit because I did not have an airbill. Further, there is no warning that the driver is coming for the package. I was out when they came to pick up the unit. The option to print your own airbill and call drop off seems more flexible.