ID: B001NPDKWQ-R5UPBT56MWI4Q-A20DZX38KRBIT8
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV6-1050US-16-0-Inch-Processor-Premium
ReviewerID: A20DZX38KRBIT8
ReviewerName: Deimos "Rock Fan"
Date: June 12, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 1.0
Title: HP Garbage.
Content:
HP laptops are the purest form of tech garbage there is on planet earth.  When you combine with Compaq which is even worse, horrible results follow.  I can only strongly recommend that anyone looking for a laptop stay away from Compaq, HP and HP-Compaq machines.  My gf received this laptop two years ago to the day and it's totally dead right now.  Over the last 6 months it began developing a lot of problems.  The computer was never fast, always took forever to load up, had horrible internet service/wireless service and never seemed to measure up to what the specs were capable of.  Well The first problem we encountered was the laptop would start up with crazy checkered colours all over the screen and need several restarts to get going.  This was only 1/1/2 years into owning this junk.  Second about a month later the wireless card which was never impressive to begin with totally failed, so I had to buy a usb wireless adapter just to get it to work because it would be quicker than sending it to HP   for god knows how long.  The performance since the laptop was bought seemed to degrade rapidly until it was a pain in the neck to even use altogether.  A month or so after the wireless card failed the checkered colours started acting up again and upon restart the hard drive completely failed and will not boot up, the system powers on but cannot boot up the hard drive, it tries but it sounds like a car stalling out.  So in a nutshell this laptop barely lasted two years and was nearly unusable a year or so in.  I have never seen a HP yet that I was impressed with and now thank god my gf is turned from them as well.  I owned a Compaq laptop several years ago and an ACER with similar issues, so as stated I would strongly recommend looking at other brands and stay away from this poor quality, cheap unreliable hardware, over priced sham of a computer company know as HP-Compaq.