ID: B001D8S9E2-R1LTAOFTE9YQWH-AWNYS3OCXXX4P
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB466LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: AWNYS3OCXXX4P
ReviewerName: Horatio Hornblower "HH"
Date: November 5, 2008
Helpful: 14 of 18
Rating: 4.0
Title: Solid Notebook Hits the Sweet Spot
Content:
I am very pleased with my purchase of the 2.4 GHz Aluminum MacBook. While it is reasonable to wish other features were available or to feel the price is too high, it is ludicrous to rate this laptop a "1" as some have done.
Take the screen issue for instance. I spent an hour at the apple store before purchasing this laptop comparing the display to that of the MacBook Pro. Back and forth I went, playing sample video after sample video, looking from different viewing angles, trying to see what the complaint was. I'm sorry, maybe my eyes are not so good for that sort of thing, but I just didn't see that big a difference. I'm not saying there is no difference and I do think the MacBook Pro looked a little better. But I would in no way characterize the display as bad or washed out.
As far as the glossy display...it is reflective as are most new laptops these days. However, the LED display is so bright that even in the sunlight (as is the case as I type this ) I can see the screen perfectly well. I know many people prefer the matte screen, especially photo buffs. Perhaps Apple will bring the matte back as an option. I think the display is VERY good and much improved over my last macbook...much brighter.
The fit and finish of this laptop is outstanding! It really does feel like a solid block of metal with absolutely no "flexing" when holding in one hand. I have never had a laptop, PC or Mac, that felt like it was put together so well. It is just a beautifully designed notebook with clean, simple lines as opposed to some notebooks I've seen that are almost garish with the colors and flashing lights. 
I chose the 2.4 Ghz Model over the 2.0 GHz Macbook. While this increased the price by $ 300 +/- , the faster processor, larger hardrive, and backlit keyboard was worth it to me. I really like the backlit keyboard as I am often working with the lights down. If those things are not important to you, save yourself $ 300 and get the 2.0 GHz. You really won't notice much difference in speed.
On the other hand, if a somewhat better and larger 15.4 "display, and a discreet graphics card for more demanding tasks ( such as gaming ) are important, you may prefer the MacBook Pro. I may have gone this way myself but I personally prefer the smaller screen as it is easier to travel with and use on a plane.  
The price? Too high? Perhaps so if you do not feel that the Mac OS is for you. One can certainly buy a VERY fast and feature rich PC for less than the price of the MacBook. However, for a marginally higher investment, I feel I have a very well made and extremely functional notebook that I don't need to worry about.