ID: B001ET6QFO-R5MUWRVVXRRNP-AFV7OJRADY01R
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-50D-Digital-18-200mm-Standard
ReviewerID: AFV7OJRADY01R
ReviewerName: Cameron Scholtz
Date: January 8, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very Happy with My 50D's IQ :)
Content:
There are already a lot of detailed reviews about the 50D.  With that in mind I'll keep this brief.  My background: I'm an amature with a lot of SLR experience.  I started taking photography classes in high school...back when there were only film SLRs!.  Photojournalism was also my major for one year in college.  And since it's been an on and off hobby of mine.  I have a Canon SD 700 IS but this 50D was my first DSLR.
Maybe it's because I work long hours and I'm not outside during the day, but most of my 50D photos so far have been in the late afternoon or evenings, or indoors.  As such I've used ISO 1600 quite a bit.  The images to my eye look fantastic!  Within the menu system there are High ISO Noise Reduction and Long Exposure Noise Reduection options that can be turned on/off as needed.
If one is to compare image quality of the 50D to the 40D, I think it's interesting to remember the 50D takes larger, higher resolution images.  In other words, the 50D images start out with more detail.  And from the research I did it appears the 50D's images can be sharpened and still have more detail than the 40D.  There are good explanations of this on the web.  Amazon censored out the article links I included but if you contact me I'd be happy to provide them.
Anyway, suffices to say I'm very happy with my 50D's IQ so far.  I also like it's super fast and accurate focusing!  I haven't used Live View very much but that feature has had its useful moments.  The LCD screen is gorgeous!  And the controls and menus are easy to navigate.  To be honest, they were a bit overwhelming the first couple days but then quickly became second nature.  I also bought Jeff Revell's Canon 50D: From Snapshots to Great Shots.  It's a "beginner" type book IMO, but still a good intro to this camera and a primer of DSLR basics if you're transitioning from film to digital like I was.
I bought the 50D body only from Amazon and got the Canon EF 50mm f1.4 USM Standard & Medium Telephoto Lens for Canon SLR Cameras from Adorama; they matched the price and they've been very easy to work with.  OK that's enough from me!  If you happen to have any questions let me know, I'll try to answer best I can.  Cheers!