ID: B0013FJBX8-R1CGNMKK86410N-A2RK04OMCN2HXO
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB470LL-15-4-Inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: A2RK04OMCN2HXO
ReviewerName: Paul Cantrell
Date: December 20, 2008
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Simultaneously gorgeous and utilitarian
Content:
Apple's update to their laptop case design is really magnificent. The new machines have a much more rigid, substantial feel, and appear to be much less susceptible to the torquing and bending that could afflict the older ones. And it's exactly as beautiful as the photos make it look.
The performance is excellent, and jaw-dropping for somebody who came from a nearly 4-year-old Powerbook. I got this souped up 2.53 GHz configuration because of some of the work I do on the machine: developing very RAM-intensive imagery software, and audio recording and editing. If you're not doing something like that, and if you're not a hard-core gamer -- if you're using the machine for word processing and email and maybe iPhoto -- just get the 2.4 GHz. You won't notice the difference. Even if you do need the RAM or the hard drive, but you're not a gamer, you may not care about the improved graphics card. Consider ordering the 2.4 from Apple and upgrading the RAM and HD on that configuration. It will come out about $250 cheaper. I was going to do that, and bought the 2.53 instead only because it was on sale! (Still haven't received my rebate, although it hasn't quite been long enough that I'm concerned. But I have my eye on you, Amazon.)
I was worried about the glossy screen, but find that I love it. Yes, it is *very* glossy -- but it's also vivid, extremely sharp, quite amazingly bright, and takes no time to reach its full brightness. The brightness easily overwhelms any more moderate reflections. I find that reflections rarely bother me. Surprisingly, it's usable in direct sunlight -- more so than previous Apple notebooks, in fact. The one situation where it's real trouble is when the sun is directly behind me or shining on me: then the reflection is bothersome. If your work setup is like that, be warned!
The new keyboard feels great. It has a more solid, less squishy feel than the previous MacBook Pro. I find the touch pleasantly reminiscent of the original Titanium Powerbook, which always felt great to my fingers. My only complaint is that I can no longer press cmd and option simultaneously with one thumb; I am having to get used to new fingerings.
The trackpad's increased area is fabulous, and the feel is great. The click, however, is distractingly loud. At first, having the whole thing be the button was a bit disconcerting, but I quickly got used to it and now like it better than the original. The two-finger right click is genius. Note that you can touch the trackpad with two fingers and then click with your thumb to get a right click! Much easier than their demo. The three-finger gestures are more or less useless; the four-finger expose gestures are more practical.
The laptop is very slightly wider than the older model, which meant that I had to get a new case. I recommend Tom Bihn's "Brain Cell," which protects against both dropping and bending, and fits inside your backpack (the vertical version) or briefcase (the horizontal).
If you have any Firewire 400 devices, note that you do NOT need to buy an adapter! There are cables that go directly from FW 400 at one end to FW 800 at the other, and they eat up a lot less space.
My only major complaint is really about the price of cables. The Mini DisplayPort is wonderfully small, and I see why they ditched DVI for it. The adapter cables, however, are ridiculously expensive! Furthermore, you can't just get a Displayport-to-DVI adapter and then plug your existing DVI-to-VGA into it. Doesn't work. Instead, you have to get a separate Displayport-to-VGA cable. Blah. Somebody needs to start making some generic adapter cables so that Apple can't get away with charging $30 for them!
Despite my minor complaints, this is a magnificent machine -- and miles ahead of any other laptop in terms of both beauty and functional design.