ID: B0013FJBX8-RKSCZELHU5B47-A23LL30T0D2EBT
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB470LL-15-4-Inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: A23LL30T0D2EBT
ReviewerName: Collin
Date: January 19, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Amazing
Content:
Okay I;d first like to start off saying that this is an excellent machine, and Apple design their products Superbly. This machine is fast as hell too!
Design:
This laptop is so thin compared to other computers on this power that its mind blowing. It just looks stunning. The magnetic latch is genius, and is way better then the manual latch they had on previous gen models. Also i like the black chicklet keys that I'm typing on right now to write this review.The magsafe power adapter is just f@#%ing awesome. Theres no other way to describe it. Also, some people may disagree, but i love the new trackpad, and how its all one button. i couldn'tlive without it. In fact whenever i am on somone elses laptop, i am always wonder why it is not clicking.lol.The glossy screen does not bother me, but then again i am never outside with my laptop, so no comment on that. This laptop definately is sturdy as hell and i wouldnt be surprised if it could take a fall.
Software: iLife suite is awesome,i mainly do find myself only using Garageband though since i have Premiere Pro to use instead of iMovie. But it would be awesomefor anybody who has no idea what they are doing.
OS: A million times better than any windows OS in my opinion. You dont ned to be scared about making the plunge into MAC OSX. In fact, to prepare, i tried to learn everything i could about MAC OSX before i even got the mac. Overall though it is a very fast OS, and EVEN FASTER with 4GB RAM
Hardware:Like I said before, this machine is fast as hell. Even when rendering files and editing video this thing holds up. But what i do recommend is that you upgrade your RAM to 4GB if you want extraordinary power, and no hiccups. Again with the video editing, you may aslo want to consider a faster/ bigger hard drive.
Thats about all i have to say/ all i can say for now. I hope this helps you decide on your final purchase. Thank you