ID: B001G5ZTLS-R3F45V0TNWGQ9D-A2J5W8KVS0P17T
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-EOS-5D-Mark-II
ReviewerID: A2J5W8KVS0P17T
ReviewerName: M. Henri De Feraudy
Date: March 26, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Worth the step up from the previous 5D model
Content:
For starters I dont have the focusing problems that some reviewers have had, but I have used this body with manual focusing lenses on static subjects and I have 
found that the live view is very well designed (better than my Nikon D300) and very useful. Suddenly an old Nikon super-telephoto lens that was very hard to focus has taken on a new life. I'm using an adapter ring of course.
 Live view has also made it easy to use atilt and shift lens.
Pictures using lenses like the 50mm AF F/1.8 lenses are extremely sharp (and therefore the focusing is accurate), and I get the impression they could increase the pixel count even further and it would be worth it. My 24-105 mm lens however is beginning to look soft in the corners with this camera.
I found the user interface an instant improvement when moving up from the 5D. This is partly facilitated by the improved screen resolution, so now I can find what I'm looking for much faster. It's almost visible in full daylight (but you better use your body to shade it).
The user manual is very well written.
The infrared remote control RC-5 does not make it possible to take instant shots: there is always a delay. This is a disappointment. HDR photographers will also be disappointed to note that you still cannot take more that 3 exposures without touching the camera or buying a rather expensive Promote Systems Promote Control, Remote Control for Digital SLR Cameras
I have not used the video yet, but I have seen a professional documentary that was entirely filmed with this camera and was blown away by the quality.
Low light photography is improved over the 5D which was highly praised at the time. You get about an extra f-stop.
I also appreciate a bit of sealing as the previous model was extremely vulnerable on this count: like you would not want to bring it to a party with drinks splashing around.
This camera may not be a sport's shooter's dream but it is very good for landscape, with a tilt and shift lens like Canon TS-E 24mm f/3.5L II Ultra Wide Tilt-Shift Lens for Canon Digital SLR Cameras
All in all there are no regrets moving up to this, and I will sell my 5D for a low price.