ID: B001SAS5NU-R3QLQ8A4XD18LQ-A2YOQUX0E0BE7E
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Factory-Reconditioned-Dyson-12446-02-DC21-Canister
ReviewerID: A2YOQUX0E0BE7E
ReviewerName: glresearch
Date: February 8, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: handle and wand design issues -- varies with model
Content:
The internal machinery is very advanced and extremely durable, but the emphasis on a quick-disconnect powered telescoping wand with internal cord -- compared to a less neat looking wand with an external coiled cord -- leads to a wide. thick head on the wand which cannot fit into tight spaces old metal tubes could reach, and a handle when collapsed which is too heavy especially for lighter weight people to use for dusting etc.  You don't get the separate light wand for hand use included in the upright models.  It at least needs another connection at the top of the telescoping wand to disconnect it entirely and provide a light weight handle for using attachments.  They appeared to find the compromises necessary for the compact storage.
A lighter handle solving these problems is supplied on the newer model DC23 with the turbinehead, which eliminates the need for electric power connections through the wand, allowing disconnecting the hose, which has the handle on it's end instead on the wand.  The newer DC23 motorhead model retains the same DC21 powered wand. (They can't seem to make up their mind about design, as another DC22 canister has a less wide 9" carpet tool and a more powerful motor, both increasing floor suction. Another advantage is maneuvering through tighter spaces between furniture.  Comes in both turbine and motor head like the DC23).
To reach into tight spaces, 1" plastic pipe will fit into the attachment compression mount (the narrower of two sizes Dyson uses) with a little tape to thicken, and a plastic 1 1/2 x 6" "sink tailpiece" (not the longer, thicker ones) in plumbing exactly mates that to the attachments, to make any length narrow wand desired at minimal cost.