ID: B00126SV6G-R3FQMZBUJ6UXPQ-A3AT0UDG1F9T0Y
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Portable-Media-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A3AT0UDG1F9T0Y
ReviewerName: Sebastian Orozco "Sebasitsme"
Date: December 5, 2007
Helpful: 2 of 12
Rating: 3.0
Title: If you buy it you will have to deal with...
Content:
FIRST. The battery is the worst. Don't expect much from the battery. It last for me 1 or 2 days on my way to and back from school. It can be half when you turn it off and you turn it on the next day and it wont turn on because the battery is death. You need to constantly charge it because if you forget trust me you wont have battery the next day. I think my old played was way much better on that part. Because of this the clock will never be right and I am tired of changing the time every the time. The battery wont last for a long trip. 
SECOND. The videos are very fast to transfer. But before the transfer occurs you have to convert the video to a different format and it takes FOREVERRRRRRRR to convert. Pictures and music are relatively fast. Videos are not excellent. The quality is good but the sound gets disturbed few times on different videos at the exact second of the video every the time you play it. Not on all videos but some and I don't want to re transfer it again after waiting so long for the format conversion. ANNOYING...  
THIRD. The screen scratches so easily. 
 
FORTH. The headphones it comes with are the worst and so big that hurts your ear. 
FIFTH. Expensive. I made a comparison between this and the Ipod Touch and  found that the Ipod touch is so much cheaper for what it can do. The Zen is relatively expensive compared to other players. 
SIX. It Freezes sometimes, not to much but it happens and you have to reset it and find a paper clip to push the button. If you cant find one then wait until you get one and by the way, once it freezes you can not turn it off so the weak battery will die. 
Besides my six complaints is a good player. the battery is the worst trust me I have to say it again.