ID: B001ENOZY4-R1LILT15IUZ05S-A2AVFG9MTHSUCO
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D90-Digital-18-105mm-3-5-5-6G
ReviewerID: A2AVFG9MTHSUCO
ReviewerName: M. Trotta "MJMajic"
Date: August 26, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 95
Rating: 1.0
Title: Super Saver Shipping
Content:
DO NOT USE SUPER SAVER SHIPPING if you want your merchandise in less than 10 BUSINESS days!  I'd love to give this product a 4 or 5 star review (as I'm sure I will once I get to use it), but it's not here.  I wanted the kit package plus a couple of filters, extra battery and remote - six separate items.  Searched the web and found all items at different locations, and, all at Amazon.  Although no tax "free" shipping was available at other vendors at a slightly lower price, I thought it best to order all from Amazon and receive everything at once.  Wrong decision.  As it turns out not everything comes from Amazon and Amazon split the order for 6 items into 4 orders.  They were sending the camera, one filter and the remote.  The other 3 items were coming from different vendors and 3 different locations.  The order was placed 8/17.  By 8/20 the 3 separate orders were here.  Amazon hadn't even shipped yet.  The day after the order was placed, the Amazon portion of the order showed: estimated ship date of 8/24 and no changes can be made to the order because "it was in processing."  So, I couldn't amend the shipping information to normal or 2 day.  I wrote Amazon.  Received an apology and information that my order should ship 8/21.  Sure enough, UPS showed pick up 8/21 with delivery 8/25.  8/24 I get a recorded message from UPS: "you will be receiving a delivery tomorrow which will require a signature.  Someone needs to be home between 9 AM and 7 PM."  I received over 30 UPS deliveries a year.  I have never gotten this message.  If I'm not here they leave the package on the front step.  They'll leave computers on the front step.  But, maybe this is a change in policy and they're taking the extra step to inform the public.  So, on one of the nicest days of my vacation, I sat home and waited.  Called UPS at 7 PM and they said it still showed "out for delivery."  Hell, I knew that by looking online.  By 10:30 last night their site showed it was scanned back into the facility at 7:07 PM.  It's now 9:10 AM 8/26 and it still shows the package is at the facility.  UPS says it will be delivered sometime today, their web site say the package is at the facility.  
In the interest of full disclosure, this is probably my fault.  I have never had this problem with UPS, except, once before, two years ago Christmas.  It was another order from Amazon.  They were advertising "place your order by 12/21 and we'll have it to you by Christmas, and shipping is free."  I placed an order for a last minute item on 12/18, 3 days prior to the cutoff.  It arrived 12/27.  I don't think I used Amazon again for a year.  If I had chosen a different vendor I would have had a camera in time for the Yankees/Red Sox game 8/22 - birthday present tickets.  And, I would have had it in time for my 10 days away starting tomorrow.  If your order is important to you, free shipping is NOT free.  And, with UPS it seems to have the lowest priority possible.