ID: B0018SLJ94-R28CX6PUOFM73N-AHJ3Q29LI0Z3S
Category: Laptops
Product: ASUS-M50Sv-A1-Core-T9300-Laptop
ReviewerID: AHJ3Q29LI0Z3S
ReviewerName: D. Siddiqui "s___s"
Date: January 29, 2009
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 1.0
Title: Terrible
Content:
I bought this laptop in May 2008 so it has been 9 months and I can tell you it has been a waste of money. It looks really nice and its camera speaker touchpad HD memory CPU are all decent. 
The two big problems with this model are its terrible screen and ventilation system.  Moving the screen vertically even slightly significantly distorts the picture. I find that unacceptable especially since it's a laptop, it's kind of obvious I would like to move my head around a bit and sit comfortably ... well can't do that without having to adjust the screen. The screen is also not evenly bright. I don't expect it to be perfect but some parts look like a light bulb and others look like a dark alley. This is true whether you have their automatic adjustment feature on or off. 
Second major issue is overheating and subsequent noise. If you want to buy this for graphics intensive work or play maybe a few hours of video games everyday, forget it. Heating issues came up within 4 months of use with the temperature hitting the high 90s anytime I did graphics intensive work. I don't even play video games that much ... just wanted to play 1-2 hours of TF2 on this thing but can't do that. What's the point of the 2.5 Gig dual core processor and all that RAM if I can't do graphics intensive work for a few hours?
The last point is that the keyboard feels really cheap for a $1300 ( $1500 now for almost the same specs from a year ago) laptop... I mean you feel the cheapness every time you type as your fingers 'sink in' and I am feeling it even more now as some keys require extra pressure to work. 
This review was written with the CPU forced down to 64% of its speed to keep the core temperature reasonable and it's not fun seeing a machine like this perform like my old pentium 150 as I scroll down this text box in slow motion while typing.