ID: B001I902HS-R2Z73BDUQL83YH-A25C2M3QF9G7OQ
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Panasonic-MC-CG885-OptiFlow-Lightweight-Canister
ReviewerID: A25C2M3QF9G7OQ
ReviewerName: Comdet
Date: December 28, 2008
Helpful: 6 of 7
Rating: 3.0
Title: Decent vac, but better choices are available
Content:
The Panasonic MC-CG885 has a lot going for it. It's compact and easy to store, the build quality looks/feels pretty good, it stores attachments on-board so you don't lose them, and rolls easily. I'm particularly fond of the fact that the hose has a swivel coupling to the main unit so you don't have to spend time untangling yourself from the hose after using it. The power cord is a little shorter than other vacs. The auto-rewind feature works fairly well, but occasionally will not rewind the final couple of feet of cord without some coaxing.
The suction power on hard floors is excellent -- picks up everything I threw at it without missing a beat. Performance on carpets is decent. It's not great when it comes to pet hair, but a few slow passes will usually do the trick. I like that it has a manual pile height adjustment since the automatic ones never seem to set themselves to the correct height. All adjustments are via a foot pedal, making it easy to switch heights quickly.
The vac bag is installed in a rather unique caddy-like device. According to Panasonic, it helps with the airflow so you can get maximum use out of each bag. Not sure if this is actually the case, but it definitely makes it more convenient to take the bag out when its full. It also has a HEPA filter to keep the outgoing air clean, and a foam pre-filter that can be washed. The latter is a nice touch since I've found that keeping the pre-filter clean extends the life of the HEPA filters (which can be pricy to replace). 
My major complaints center on two issues. First, there's no bare floor brush. It has a power head that can be switched off for hard floors, but the size and shape of the head makes it very difficult to get into the nooks and crannies that tend to collect all the dust balls. There is one brush attachment, but it is very small, and not efficient for floor use.
Secondly, I don't think this unit gives you enough "bang for the buck" considering its price tag. I also have a Hoover bagless canister which performs equally well as the Panasonic, has more convenience features (such as a telescoping metal wand, floor brush and washable main filter) and comes in at a far lower cost. 
In short, this would be close to a five-star vac if it were priced at least $100 less and the operating costs (bags, filters) were less. At its present price, I'd only give it 3 stars.