ID: B001ET5U92-R30K9DU2OQIK0M-A3JWUUSLIGTBHM
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D90-12-3MP-Digital-Body
ReviewerID: A3JWUUSLIGTBHM
ReviewerName: ChrisInCali
Date: September 19, 2009
Helpful: 9 of 12
Rating: 4.0
Title: One of the best cropped sensor DSLRs on the market.
Content:
1. Nikon D300s
2. Nikon D90
3. Canon XSi
These are the three best cropped sensor DSLRs in order.  If you can't afford the first two, number three will still make you very, very happy.  The Nikon D90 is phenomenal.  It's speedy, it's accurate, it has brilliant high iso performance for low-light shooting, excellent dynamic range for fixing up pictures that may be under or over-exposed, excellent auto-focus, and just feels good in your hands.  The images I get from the D90 impress me time and time again.  Couple this camera with the Nikon 35mm 1.8 DX(low light, portraits, semi-wide shots) and the Nikon 55-200mm VR DX(sports, birds, butterflies, nature, surfing) lenses and you will have an awesome set-up that won't break your bank.  
The only downside to all of this is the "HD" video mode.  DO NOT BUY THIS CAMERA IF VIDEO IS A FEATURE HIGH ON YOUR LIST, GET A DEDICATED VIDEO CAMERA INSTEAD(I recommend the Canon HF100).  Some DSLRs are capable of taking "HD" video now; The Nikon D90, Nikon D300s, the Canon 5d Mark II, Canon T1i, and the Canon 7D, but guess what?  They all suck.  Why?  They cannot automatically focus while taking video.  What does that mean for you?  That means you will never be able to film sports or any moving subjects.  You will never be able to move the camera out of range without insane levels of care to keep your subject exactly in the distance from were your pre-focused it.  You will have rolling shutter aka "jelly video" if you pan the camera too quickly.  Yes, you can manually focus while filming to get a professional film look, but that requires a lot of skill and patience.  You will never be able to just point the camera and capture your sons football game, or daughters dance lessons.  You will have to pre-focus every shot, and keep the camera on a tri-pod or buy expensive steady-cam equipment.  The video modes in DSLRs just are not worth it, not yet at least.
Don't let that deter you from getting a D90 though, the images are astounding!  Pictures, remember the reason that you should be wanting a DSLR in the first place, not video.  ;)