ID: B001FA21RE-R3QPQ77RJ5XORH-A2SD5LWRK8BFMT
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Nescafe-KP210650-Single-Serve-Coffee-Machine
ReviewerID: A2SD5LWRK8BFMT
ReviewerName: E. Eagle
Date: April 20, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 2.0
Title: Just Get an Electric Teapot
Content:
I bought this item very lightly used and thankfully did not pay anywhere near full price for it.  I live in Germany and do not have the Nescafe logo on my machine, but it is the same exact model, just for 220v.  Krups is a fantastic brand with a well-deserved good reputation, which makes this dud of a product all the more confusing.  I have no idea where all these 5-star reviews are coming from.  Prospective consumers, do your research and try a few cups made from this machine before you drop the money on it. I wish I had.
Let's cut to the chase.  The coffee is weak and awful.  The "Espresso" cartridges taste like someone just filled up a generic coffee filter with double grounds, but cheap stuff like Maxwell House not your high quality fresh whole beans you picked up at Whole Foods.  The Mocha is consumable, but is obviously fake and way too artificially sweet.  The Chococcino flavor is alright, but that can hardly be called a cup of coffee; just make a cup of hot chocolate and mix in a crushed up No-Doz and it's basically the same thing.
I can only assume the reason I can't find anything but froofy designer flavors for this thing is because they know they can't go head-to-head against just a good pot of freshly-ground coffee.  But, it does make the stuff quickly.  As another reviewer mentioned, in less than 1 minute I was ready to go.  ....out to Starbucks, Dunkin Donuts, or bless my soul, McDonalds, to get a real cup of coffee.
The more I think about this item and look at it sitting all pretentiously on my kitchen counter - staring down its nose at the various plebeian appliances it is so unfortunate to be surrounded by - the more I am convinced that it is just a slick-looking, high-priced device that says "Krups" on it that can be sold to wealthy urbanites who can't be bothered to rip open a packet of instant coffee and pour it in a cup.  Save your money - get a fast-boiling plug-in teapot and a box of instant, and you will get the same exact results.  In fact, you'll get better results with a teapot and instant - at least with the instant I can pour as much of the stuff as I want into the cup, making it as strong or as weak as I like, instead of just being limited to a wimpy cartridge.