ID: B001CBMD6A-R2RCT1T7JMDMFX-A1TDY0RYLH9RO8
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-10-1MP-Digital-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A1TDY0RYLH9RO8
ReviewerName: Judah B "judah b"
Date: November 25, 2008
Helpful: 327 of 329
Rating: 5.0
Title: Canon REBEL XS simply a beautiful experience
Content:
I spent several weeks reviewing the REBEL XS vs it's many 10 MP adversaries, I even checked it against the ultra zooms as I wanted the convenience of video as well, but too many good things stood out with this camera and so I decided upon it. I bought the rebel XS and after days of dirt testing this camera I've found it a beautiful experience.
          Now I'm a professional videographer attached to a tv station in Trinidad & Tobago, my purpose for this camera was the need for a quick sharp still shot camera that would be impressive under low light and still capture impressive portrait shots to be used for my website and for large prints. I didn't want to shell out over a $1000. US for a camera body.
             What is tagged by Canon is true: The full auto mode is truly accurate and gives excellent shots always, it makes photography so easy for a beginner or intermediate. The portrait mode isn't  blurry, images are clean, nicely toned, excellent in quality for large size prints. The P ( program mode) I like alot at first because this mode sets exposure so nicely I found it addictive. I shot alot of  night pics of cars on a freeway, with bright, sharp, lively colours emerging. Night pics at 800 iso had  very very very little noise, and I mean I was searching the pics on 15" monitors for reason to complain, but was really impressed.
             The auto focus is really quick. Th XS comes with "only" a 7 point auto focus system compared to the XSi 9 point, forgive me when I say there may be no need for another 2 points when the camera focusses so quick and so accurately. I have not  gotten a soft image when shot with the auto focus operating.
               Now for those point and shoot cams that boast about "face detection"....5 faces...6,7, some even 15. I also have a 10 mp ultra zoom, this simply matters little if not at all, if the focussing ability of the camera is poor or average, and given the "average lens" quality they're made of. 
I have learnt clearly that a 10 MP ultra zoom simply cannot compare to a 10 MP D SLR...chalk and cheese.
             I also bought the Tamron 70mm - 300mm,  F4-5.6 telephoto/ macro lens. No vignetting at either end of the lens.
              Auto iso is simply magnificent, have not taken a shot where the camera over estimated or underestimated the  iso levels.
The Manual mode of this camera is the most impressive for me. The rebel XS via  various magazine testing has come up faster than it's other 10 MP rivals when it comes to fps shooting, and burst images. It really does shoot 3 fps consistently, it shoots 2.3 fps in low light, worst case is over 1 fps all at 10 MP quality. 
I haven't used a lower quality since, given I bought a Transcend 8GB SDHC card storage is not an issue.
                Most of my shooting has been at night, for the little done in daylight, it has been amazing. Colours are very bright, depth of field very very nice. Macros works well. Image optimizer simply shocked life out of me. I was in a shaded area and without flash it really improves the subject without over blowing the background, stuff that is almost impossible on point and shoot cams.
               Stuff I disagree with from the "reviews" : 1- "The camera feels cheaply built"....simply wrong, nothing is shabby, buttons are actually easy to press, doesn't have cheap clicks to them, the lens mount has a secure feel to it, and a proper snap when it is set. Battery compartment is certainly secure. Your finger must intricately open the door for entry, won't be an accident issue. Rubber door at a.v. ports snap in well. Rubber grip is firm enough, smooth enough to not irritate your hands.
            2- " XS is "overpriced" compared to the XSi.....Xsi shoots slower than the XS, XSi picture quality is equal to the XS even though the XSi is 12 MP. The XSi may be the 3" LCD and a few other upgrades, but these upgrades don't add up when the picture is taken and the quality of both cameras match alike. I may have chosen the XSI if I wanted to spend the extra $150. u.s but for the lesser price, I'm yet to regret.
           3- "The XS "only has a 2.5" LCD compared to a couple of it's rivals having 3" LCD's". I can see every thing clearly with this screen, even with Histograms, and grids onscreen. If LCD's get much bigger then canon may need to install a tv tuner as well....the 2.5" is more than sufficient.
           4- "The XS doesn't have SPOT METERING compared to the XSi, so this is a big issue"- haven't encountered a reason to complain yet, after 500 night shots and 200 day shots.
   
THE DOWN SIDE: the EOS software for uploading the photos to computer, and remote controlling the cam via computer is AWFUL. It's a task to upload, as it is beach balling when you hit "upload". Digital professional software is non responsive. I have not been able to use the software past the install point. Mac version here.
Better use i-photo and photoshop.
I highly rate this camera, and as a videographer who's accustomed to t.v. broadcast quality the REBEL XS is worth it, and since canon is so intent on pushing the rebel XSi they have significantly lowered the price on the XS.....I recommend people buy the XS and get a good lens with the discount earned. The trick is in the lens and the user, and lesser the camera.