ID: B001FB5XGO-R1RUBA943GY6SU-AZ8XSDMIX04VJ
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-Hi-Speed-Convection-Oil-Filled-Radiator
ReviewerID: AZ8XSDMIX04VJ
ReviewerName: L. WOS
Date: October 23, 2008
Helpful: 19 of 20
Rating: 4.0
Title: Time will tell
Content:
Just got this unit. Slim design, good rollers, handy cord storage.
HEAVY UNIT and appears quality made.
I followed the instructions but went a step further when it said to RUN IT ON THE HIGHEST SETTING FOR 2 HOURS in a WELL VENTILATED AREA. I put mine outside and let it run for 2.5 hours......full blast. Glad I did. Even so, when I put it in the basement and turned it on.....there was still a faint odor....not really objectionable.....but like something's burning or is "hot". 
I like the handy on / off programmer, but the sliders you push ( like on those lamp timmers) are really tiny and fine. Someone with big fingers might have a dickens of a time trying to move those sliders.  The Power cord is a nice length but I wish they would have attached to cord to the rear of the unit rather than the front where the "on" signal light, controls and timer dial sit.  
I have a heated lower level on a poured concrete floor... which runs a good 10 degrees colder than the upper level. When we turn the thermostat down at night, it gets mighty cold down there, especially in the winter. I am hoping this unit takes some of the chill out during the night, without having to heat the whole house.  The unit is suppose to be large enough to heat a 12x12 room. We'll see.  There is a lot of heat coming out of the very top of the register when on the highest setting #3. Not as much heat is coming off the sides though. If you had a ceiling fan, that would help push the hot air down from the ceiling and make the room feel warmer......but as it stands, all the nice hot air is going up towards the ceiling.
If you decide to buy this unit.....I STRONGLY suggest you FIRST run it in the garage or outside. but NOT IN THE HOUSE....cause man does it reek. After 2 1/2 hours on HIGH, the odor is mostly gone.......but you'll still smell a "something's hot" odor......but no fumes.
January 4, 2009 UPDATE
  Well, the unit works...... but it's stilL useless in open spaces larger than 12x12.  Since hot air rises, and the hot air is emitted from the top of this unit, and the unit stands 2 feet tall, the entire room never gets comfortable. All the heat hangs at ceiling level.  The area from your waist down, especially your legs and feet will always be cold.  I think in a 12x12 insulated room, with the door kept closed, you'd be fine.....or.....if you put a FAN somewhere to distribute the heat downward off the ceiling this would work.  I had a small Homes oscillating heater "fan" I can program to a certain temperature. I placed that unit at ground level to suppliment this unit......and together, it kept the basement at 69 degrees. 
Would I buy this unit again.... MAYBE.  If I had to keep one small bedroom, nursery or workroom/computer/ bathroom or houseplant room warmer than the others..... or If I wanted my room warm at night, but didnt want to heat the entire house.....then this would be good.  HOWEVER... if you're planning on heating a family room or great room with this unit.....you'll be disappointed. I'd buy at a couple oscillating Heater Fan if you need to do a large rec or family room. Something you can put at ground level and that will circulate the heat.