ID: B0012YA85A-R8BW7LH71779C-A19OFM9BMG29VI
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Camera-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A19OFM9BMG29VI
ReviewerName: G. Prich
Date: October 22, 2008
Helpful: 10 of 11
Rating: 4.0
Title: Be aware of potential issues
Content:
I purchased this camera as an update to an earlier mid-range ultrazoom I had - which was also a Canon.  I have been a Canon fan for quite a while.  My daughter had bought an earlier version of the digital Rebel and loved it, and convinced me it was time to upgrade.
On the first day I got the camera, I shot a few pictures and then transferred to a 75-300 lens I bought together with the camera and shot a few more pictures.  After about the 3rd shot, the camera froze up.  I shut it down and restarted it, and it took off fine.  Over the next couple of weeks, it started to happen more and more frequently, and  I could see an ERR99 on the back display, or in the viewfinder.  I went online and found out this had been an issue not only with this Rebel but earlier versions as well.  Recommendations said that it was an issue with contacts on the lens, and to try an eraser on the contacts.  Initially this seemed to work, but within a few days I had to try taking the battery out as well.  Eventually the camera totally locked up.  I sent the camera to Canon under warranty and they have returned it - in perfect working condition.  Several days in now, and no return of the problem - but they did not say what the issue was and there was no further information to be had.  I am happy because it is working fine now, but I of course wonder about a repeat issue after the camera is out of warranty.  I was impressed with their turn around time - they had the camera back to me in just a little over a week after I sent it out, and overnighted back when it was finished.  It does take very good pictures - but an IS lens really improves everything - the original lens works great, but the zoom lens doesn't have the IS feature.  It's ok, but it's not great.
Overall, I think anyone upgrading to this midrange SLR digital will be happy - but be aware there are some issues with them and I haven't read anything from Canon to indicate the nature of the problem, or how they resolve it.