ID: B0013FJBX8-RYB98AZ7KNOB6-A1BR9QQF8QL43N
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB470LL-15-4-Inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: A1BR9QQF8QL43N
ReviewerName: Kevin Quattro
Date: September 29, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: 15 year PC con-vert to Mac. THIS model MacBook made me do it.
Content:
What can I say? Maybe it's my age catching up with me. I am not sure. I know that I was just tired of all the mess there is in keeping a PC up to date and always running. Drivers, inter-application support, all of this is just something PC owners deal with and have gotten use to. I'm tired of it.
I found the iLife suite of applications a perfect answer for everything I needed. iPhoto, iMovie and of course iTunes (which I was already using on the PC along with my iPhone) are just a joy to use. iPhotos "places, faces and events" are super cool. And it's amazing how easy it is to get photos in and tagged. Everything about OSX just flows easily and never gets in my way. Everything works together smoothly and nothing competes with each other. i.e. WIndows Photo Viewer and Media Player both wanting to manange your pictures and videos DIFFERENTLY. Typical PC reply is "oh just download this other app and install this service and then run this codec pack and set this registry entry and you're all set'"  NO...I'M DONE WITH THAT. iLife and OSX WORK.
Now to the hardware.
I liked the previous generation MacBook Pro. It was missing some things though for the price. For one, it seemed to not really offer much in build and features I couldn't get elsewhere much cheaper in a PC laptop. This was not to say I would buy a PC but it meant I was looking at the MacMini or possibly even the iMac. Something I didn't really want to do. I wanted a laptop. So I waited. Another year with the PC...then finally these new ones hit. 
I was blown away by the features videos and when I got to handle one in person...WOW. They are thinner yet completely SOLID. Picking one up or just smashing the keys and you feel like you're using something God would use. I can rest my fat palms on the faceplate without worry. The new black backlit keys are MUCH easier to see and feel great! The buttonless touch pad (the entire thing is a button) is amazing. It's like the iPhone except with the addition of a button. Which is perfect. Be nice if the iPhone could get this feature some how. The gesture support is spot on. It's the first time I've ever used a touchpad and NOT wanted to get a mouse instantly. You can really use it all day and it's transparent. It operates so smoothly. FINALLY.
The sound from the speakers is much improved. iTunes in the background or jamming out loud is very clear and full sounding for a laptop speaker. Nothing sounds harsh or crushed. They are laptop speakers mind you, but for that, they are the best I've heard.
The display is very clear and off angle is nice. I find the contrast to be pretty good and the 3D performance to be awesome. (and should be with a 9600). The auto switching to the slower power saving 9400 is a pretty neat trick too. I play World of Warcraft and EVE-Online and they both run quite smoothly. When running on battery there is a performance hit with the cycled down cpu and slower 9400, but you'd expect that. I also tried Team Fortress 2 via "Crossover for Games" and it ran very smoothly. With only a couple of small display glitches.
My only real complaint is the lack of USB ports, it has two. I really wish it had TWO more. My model has the express slot instead of the mini card slot. I find you have many more expansion options with the express slot. Including putting in your own mini card reader. So why limit your options? 
Finally, Amazon's price was $200 cheaper than Apple's. I got no tax and free 2 day shipping on top of that, pretty sweet.