ID: B00138MVGE-R3EWUPIRNU1L3P-A2UQK3DAZ8NO2T
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Sony-DSLRA350K-Digital-SteadyShot-Stabilization
ReviewerID: A2UQK3DAZ8NO2T
ReviewerName: Hiram Grant "just call me Sam"
Date: April 17, 2008
Helpful: 70 of 78
Rating: 5.0
Title: First hands on...Great Value DSLR!
Content:
I've been able to handle an Alpha 350 one and off for about a month now, and I'm quite pleased with what I've seen so far.
First, the camera's appearance is very much like that of the Alpha 200, and identical to the Alpha 300.  All share the same, comfortable grip that uses a full-size lithium-ion "info" battery, and should feel good in most peoples hands.  The tilting LCD screen is added from the A200, and makes it a bit thicker at the back.  This thickness doesn't seem to be much of a drawback for handling, but it might make it a bit more ackward for those who wear eyeglasses.
Most of the camera controls are located in easy to use places, although the rear toggle might be too easy to hit (by mistake) for some, the idea is for it to be quickly accessable.
Performance wise, the camera seems to be greatly improved from the older Alpha 100.  Image Quality (IQ), both sharpness and color wise, appear to be very good.  Unfortunately, I haven't been able to do critical, side-by-side, low-light/high ISO testing, something which is of a possible concern with such a high megapixel CCD sensor.  Visually, those images I shot in poor lighting appeared reasonably good, but more serious testing needs to be done.
Autofocusing speed is very decent, especially when the eye-start feature begins the AF process for you.  The 9-point AF seems fast and accurate.  My only disappointment is that an upgrade camera such as this does not have the "instant" manual focusing ability of the Alpha 100.  [This feature allowed you to use the camera in AF.  Once the camera focused, it released the gearing, making manual focusing instantly possible to make corrections, without fiddling for an AF/M switch].
Of course, the built-in anti-shake ability is great.  Although we can argue the merits of in-camera vs. in-lens, there is no doubt that this feature is much less expensive, and works with lenses that neither Nikon nor Canon offer with IS/VR (e.g. 50mm f1.4), and a whole bunch of older lenses as well.
Like the anti-shake system, everyone will have their opinion on what's the best way to implement Live View.  I prefer the way Sony has chosen to use Live View, where AF speed is unaffected.  The drawback is that only 90 percent of the actual image is previewed with Sony's system.  Adding the articulated, nice quality LCD seems to me to make this system a bit more useful, and the 1.4x and 2x digital cropping may come in handy (but keep in mind, you're just cropping out megapixels).
Another feature I would have liked for this price is a wireless shutter release (it does offer a wired release).  
It will be interesting to see how this stacks up to the competition.  The biggest threat will come from the Canon Digital Rebel XSi.  The XSi will be smaller (using a new, smaller battery), and have a 12 megapixel CMOS sensor, which may prove to be better from someone doing low light with high ISO speeds (such as museum or stage photography).  Also, for $200 less, the Alpha 300 will need serious consideration.  The only feature difference is it has 10 megapixels vs. 14, and this may actually improve IQ in poorer light.
Overall, a very fine addition to the Sony lineup!
Canon Digital Rebel XSI 12MP Digital SLR Camera with EF-S 18-55mm f/3.5-5.6 IS Lens (Silver)
Sony Alpha DSLRA300X 10.2MP Digital SLR Camera with Super SteadyShot Image Stabilization with DT 18-70mm f/3.5-5.6 & DT 55-200mm f/4-5.6 Zoom Lenses