ID: B0013FLU96-R1G7Q0YFG4I0IN-ALJGXOJOM145S
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB133LL-15-4-inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: ALJGXOJOM145S
ReviewerName: hot4hypatia
Date: October 5, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: Apple for now, Linux in my future??
Content:
This is a good product as laptops for this price range go. I have the 2.2 ghz model.
Pros:  
1) Backlit keyboard is awesome
2) Apple software works seamlessly with 3rd party applications - MS is still trying to catch up. I have no trouble downloading/installing software.
3) Unix available at the command line level
4) Free iLife 08 including useful appls like iTunes, iPhoto iMovie, and GarageBand
5) Safari is a v. good browser
Cons: 
1) Screen does not display color as well as a PC (color dithering scam on its notebook displays). If you don't believe this - compare a PC and Mac notebook side by side. Ever wonder why Apple products are segregated from others (e.g. at B. Buy)?
Scrolling in some windows may  have glitches (see inet forums for details)
Ditto dragging in the mouse pad. 
2) Leopard plug-ins/updates are still not all complete from some popular application programs. Fortunately I have 2 mac notebooks and the old one has Tiger on it. Tiger runs everything.
3) Battery is still not as efficient as other laptops but my Dell 700 is even worse...
4) Apple is almost as bad as MS at being proprietary about their software. 
a) The Apple educational discounts have become progressively lower over the past 5 years. The Apple discounts on software are nowhere near as good as many others.
 I can buy Lightroom 2 for a lot less than Aperture 2 via educational store
b) Upgrading is also pricier.
5) Apple phone support is really sucking recently and stay out of Apple retail stores- their 'geniuses' in support are not even marginally intelligent in the 2 stores in my area. 
6) Apple quality control from the 'golden' days is nonexistent today. Just see the web forums for all the problems that users are having with ALL Apple products.
7) Bluetooth keyboards do not have powered USB ports. Why not??
Bottom Line: Still a cool product but it could definitely be better.