ID: B001CMMEIQ-R21LOK142OU1O7-A3RJWPP3ASGOWI
Category: AirConditioners
Product: 11-500-Btu-Portable-Air-Conditioner
ReviewerID: A3RJWPP3ASGOWI
ReviewerName: DashRiprock "Dash-"
Date: July 2, 2008
Helpful: 13 of 13
Rating: 5.0
Title: EXCELLENT! EXCELLENT! EXCELLENT!
Content:
Sharp, indeed.
This thing is elegantly designed chilling machine. The picture doesn't do it justice. Sleek. I have never seen a window unit that I would call "sleek".
I bought this for use in an almost 600sq ft apartment. After surviving my last apartment's window unit, I didn't expect much, but I figured it's portable so I could set it right next to my desk or my bed or maybe even bungy it to my belt and tow it around if I had to avoid another 98F degree day in my new non air conditioned apartment.
No drastic measures needed. None at all. I unboxed it and was up and running in about 25 minutes and put it right to the test at the hottest point of the day.
It dropped my ambient temperature from 87F to 77F in about 2 hours using the "MEGA COOL" setting which I thought was fairly impressive.
Over the last week, I've had to keep adjusting the temperature incrementally upward to keep from freezing.
I keep it set on about 77F and it is more than enough to keep my entire apartment cool with no need for directed air flow.
This baby gives you the option of a frigid air conditioner, it can dehumidify, it can even pump in fresh air if you live somewhere that still has fresh air.
I love this thing. I've had a lot of terrible window units and tepid nasty central air through filthy ducts and I would take this unit over any of them. I may adopt this as my official air conditioner and never stray.
You really have to look hard to find something to complain about this product as I see some people have done, but if you want cool filtered ionized fresh air this will do that trick and if Amazon doesn't have it in stock you can buy it from qualitymatters.com like I did for a great price w/ free shipping.
Did I mention I love this thing?