ID: B001EU9UTM-R3NO1OCVR1YERZ-A1C1Q7OY1VESQ4
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Mr-Coffee-ECMP50-Espresso-Cappuccino
ReviewerID: A1C1Q7OY1VESQ4
ReviewerName: Peter
Date: February 25, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: A Simple Inexpensive Espresso Maker
Content:
I had one of those steam pots for making espresso for years. (See my review of the Capresso Mini.) The little steamer was still working fine but I had banged it up a bit over the years. I went in search of a replacement and came across this machine.
 I am not an espresso nut. For some people creating the perfect shot of espresso is reason to live in itself...not me. I just want a tasty cappuchino in the morning with the minimum of fuss. That is exactly what this machine delivers.
 The quality is a bit plastic-y...but what would you expect for the price? Even so it is attractive enough that I don't mind it sitting on my kitchen counter. The foot print is a bit bigger than what I was used to with my Mini, but I do not think it is overly large when compared to other pump style espresso machines.
Like many other reviewers I immediately removed the rubber tip from the frothing wand and stashed the single-brew porta filter in the back of the junk drawer.  doubt I'll ever use either one.
 The coffee it produces is very good. A real step up from the old steam pot. Steaming for the milk is adequate though hardly robust. Still I have never failed to get the steaming results I wanted, so no complaints. One thing I do like is that the machine can be ready to froth milk in a few seconds without ever having to brew espresso. There are times when I like to use frothed milk in various "Adult" winter beverages, and now it is easy for me to to whip them up anytime.
As has been mentioned by other reviewers there is enough room beneith the portafilter (that's "brew basket" to the uninitiated)to place a full sized mug...not that you would want to brew a mug full of espresso all at once, but so that you can directly brew your shot into what will be your final cup. That is the real convenience of this feature.
 The porta filter basket is a bit strange in that it has a double bottom to it. On the inside there is a layer with very fine holes to act as a filter as one would expect,....but turn the metal filter over and on the bottom there is only one single tiny hole. I believe that this may be a crema enhancing trick, but I am not sure about that. What I do know is that I have never seen another one like it. I also know that it causes a lot of constriction to the brewing of the coffee. Perhaps it is designed to make the dosing and tamping less critical in achieving a good cup of espresso? I do not have the answer, but so far it works, so I'm not complaining.
 If you buy this espresso maker you will also need to  get a tamper. The plastic one that comes with the machine is pretty flimsy. I got this one:
RSVP Terry's Tamper
Which fits properly and does the job just fine without a lot of expense or fanfare.
If you are thinking about trying an espresso machine, but are not sure if a fancy one is worth the expense, this is a great choice.
UPDATE: After 9 months I haven't had a single issue with durability. I have discovered by trial and error that it is possible to over pack the filter basket (portafilter) and when that happens the pump struggles. But by now I have gotten my "dosing" down to a system and I always get excellent results. The leaking that other reviewers mention is caused because the pump purges into the drip tray when you are done brewing. If the drip tray isn't emptied regularly, or if it isn't seated in the base correctly it will leak water onto thte counter. The instructions tell you this. I have never had a leak problem with my unit.
I love this machine! I wold buy another without hesitation if I had need of one, or I would give one as a gift with confidence. Good job, Mr. Coffee!