ID: B001ET5U92-RNHGM70PQ51K1-A2QOLHSESSJZWJ
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D90-12-3MP-Digital-Body
ReviewerID: A2QOLHSESSJZWJ
ReviewerName: Dr. Norge
Date: December 1, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: The "Sweet Spot" for Nikon DX SLRs
Content:
I bought a Nikon D300 when they first came out, and it was a great camera for shooting my son's sports activities - basketball, football, and baseball.  The D300 was built like a tank, and shot close to 9 frames per second with the external battery pack.  Although I was able to deal with the complexity of the D300, my wife wouldn't touch the thing - it was just too intimidating.
Our son graduated about 6 months ago and went off to college, and I decided the D300 was overkill for my shooting needs.  So I sold it for $1200, bought a D90 body to go with my existing lenses, pocketed the extra $300, and never looked back.  The D90 doesn't have the D300's frame rate, or a few other esoteric features that I never used, but other than that the D90 is truly a superior camera.  In particular,
- The D90 is much lighter weight and more compact,
- It has a "Full Auto" mode that my wife is comfortable with,
- 720p video (though I haven't used it much), and
- Better ergonomics and ease of use.
This is the least expensive DSLR in Nikon's lineup that autofocuses with the lenses lacking internal motors for focusing, like my Tokina 11-16 wide zoom.  So it has much better compatibility with Nikon and third-party lenses than their lower-end DSLRs.
The menus are simpler than my old D300, but will probably still be somewhat overwhelming to those stepping up from a point-and-shoot.  There are several good books for learning to use the D90, I recommend David Busch's "Nikon D90 Guide to Digital SLR Photography."  Also, Ken Rockwell's web site has some great advice on which settings are worth fiddling with, and which should be left untouched.
I know a lot of serious photographers tend to sneer at the APS-C sensor size (which Nikon refers to as DX), opting for the higher-end FX models with larger sensors.  While their particular needs may dictate the need for such equipment, I am convinced that for typical DSLR users, DX is actually better.  In particular, the lens that is mounted on my D90 over 90% of the time is the amazing Nikon 18-200 zoom with vibration reduction.  This lens is the only one I need to take when I am hiking, walking the Vegas strip, or documenting a family gathering.  You simply can't get a lens like this for a FX-sensor camera - nobody makes such a thing.  It would be an equivalent 27-300 with the bigger sensor, and be ridiculously large and heavy.  With an FX-sensor camera, you would need to haul around at least two lenses to cover this zoom range, and mess with changing them out, exposing the sensor to dust, etc.
I was a little worried about the durability of the D90, as it doesn't have the internal magnesium skeleton that my D300 had.  I took the D90 on a long trip to Maui and Kauai a couple months back, with a lot of hiking, throwing the camera in the glove box, and other rather rude treatment.  It never showed any wear or performance issues.  The worst was a boat trip around the north side of Kauai, with a lot of saltwater mist and spray getting on the body and lens.  A quick wipedown back at the hotel, and I couldn't even tell it had been on the boat.  Cold weather use during the Colorado winter hasn't caused any problems either.  After 6 months of severe service, the D90 operates flawlessly, providing consistently excellent images.