ID: B001HSMW6O-R288B9Z0DK2YSE-A31ZY053E6QZA3
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-SDC850-Spacemaker-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A31ZY053E6QZA3
ReviewerName: Paulo
Date: March 4, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: FIXING THE COFFEE LEAKAGE FROM SDC850 CARAFE.
Content:
I was worried about the coffee leakage problem like others SDC850 buyers but after some observation, I found the source and the solution for the carafe leakage problem! Before going ahead, I must warn you  about the coffee that leaks from the carafe. It's old coffee (from weeks) that leak to inside of the plastic cover. Make sure about not drinking this horrible thing with your fresh coffee. The problem has his origin in a cheap (the cheapest possible) vedation system between the plastic top cover and the stainless steel pot. Here is the solution. Try this only if you have sufficient skill to do the following steps: 1-Carefully, remove the handle cover with a small screwdriver, It's locked in place with small plastic locks around. 2- Remove the phillips screw that secure the handle to carafe (lower part of handle). 3- With TWO medium sized flat screwdrivers, unmount the top pastic cover from the stainless steel pot. This step generates a lot of work but you must have patience. Once again, there's plastic lockers around. Also, there's a small plastic rod with a little spring at end. Observe tha correct position of these items when mounting the things back. 4- Now you can see a cheap (silicone?) ring that do(?) the vedation. Remove it and have some fresh silicone sealant (smells like vinegar). Dont forget to clean the top of stainless steel pot. 5- Fill ALL THE GROOVE with silicone sealnt, making sure that it's completely filled. Use your  finger to make the finish most plain possible. 6- Wait 24 hours until the silicone looks solid. 7- Replace the top plastic cover on it's original position relative to carafe. Use the screw hole to obtain the correct alignment with the stainless steel pot. DO NOT PRESS THE PLASTIC COVER IN PLACE YET. 8- Put the top cover / stainless steel pot set  on a plain and firm surface. Now, press FIRMLY (harder you can) the plastic top cover in place WITH BOTH YOUR HANDS, making sure that all plastic lockers are in place. 9- Replace the philips screw, the pastic rod with the spring and the handle plastic cover. !!!!BINGO!!!! No more leakages mom!!!!. Now you have what you paid for. That's it. Good luck!!!