ID: B001G5ZTMM-RQY3Z2VZ1S5SC-A2VHBMPCFKO0Y6
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-EOS-5D-Mark-II
ReviewerID: A2VHBMPCFKO0Y6
ReviewerName: RJ Bookman "Rich"
Date: April 3, 2010
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: No other camera will ever do in low light photography again. EXCELLENT Camera
Content:
Caviar or potato chips  
   
The Canon Mark ll 5D is EXCEPTIONAL, anyone who says the 21.1 MP is overkill is underestimating the ability of cropping wildlife photos to the smallest part taken at a far distance.  I can still find sharpness in the smallest possible section of the focused part of a photo. It really is incredible; the vivid monitor's sharpness tells the whole story without dumping the large files onto a laptop. The edge of a ruffled bird's feather, the sunlight on the corner of a leave is still noticeable and sharp with 21.1 MP. Because you can "double check" the sharpness prior to snapping the photo using the LCD, you are saving yourself lots of editing (and space, the files are huge) on the computer. This instantly makes you a better photographer and frees up more time taking pictures instead of editing them. Also, if you manage to take fewer photos but better ones, this can make the extra space for these larger 21.1 MP pics (about 28mb)  on your computer's hard drive about a draw.
I used for the first time a 100-400 IS lens and after 10 minutes of practice have taken better photos than ever before. The 180 Macro lens takes pictures like a microscope capturing the infinite details of nature hidden from the human eye. Adding the 21.1 MP factor makes your possibilities practically unlimited. If you do not use L series lenses or better, and do not have the budget for these lenses, wait and do not buy this... you will only be torturing yourself by not having them, they are a must have. It would be like driving a Ferrari on rims.
Because the AF (auto focus) mode adjusts so many functions including the ISO, an amateur like me can enjoy taking photos while not being concerned about the settings I promised myself I would learn. I just can't put the camera down long enough to read up on it! As promised this camera is excellent in very low light with the noise factor eliminated or greatly reduced. Amazing the way the 5D picks up light at night, just amazing. Once you take pictures at night with this camera, no other camera will do.
Also, for anyone wanting to learn more about this camera, (and really any other camera like it) Youtube "Canon Mark ll 5D" and you will find about 20 knowledgeable videos of pros doing hands on demonstrations, comparing similar models, and offering priceless tips about functions you never knew the camera had. This, along with Amazon's testimonials proved invaluable in my decision to buy. If you would like to see the manual ahead of time visit Canons website [...] 
I was initially concerned that the camera may be a little complicated since I moved directly to this higher end camera after using the smaller Canon SD cameras and snapping pics with my friends Rebel 300d. The 5D is quite simple and once you use it, you will be hooked.  
I also recommend a Hyperdrive, a hand held device up to 160 GIG (about twice as heavy as an iphone and a little thicker) that you can quickly dump the photos from a memory card onto. This will save you money on buying multiple memory cards and lugging around a heavy laptop on weekend trips, after all you can use the freed up space and less weight in your backpack for more lenses. A 16 GIG memory card holds about 500 21 mega pixel pics and when you do HD video (the camera automatically stops recording at 4 GIG or about 4 minutes) you can empty the card for more use (a fast 2 GIGS per minute) onto the hyperdive. [...]
Battery life is impressive and it seems you can do 300 pics on one charge with LCD and probably 2 or 3 times as much without it. 
I tried to talk myself into a lower cost camera with less mega pixels. I wanted to say I would get a regular HD video camera that had more performance features later. I relented and ponied up for the 5D and realized that for me personally it was worth the extra bucks. Very nice LCD screen and HD video in one unit. Hopefully this will delay my desire for a better camera and after seeing the impressive resale value of used L series lenses, surprisingly close to cost of new (I bought all used Lenses on Craigslist that look new) and the cameras, I felt the investment would offer future returns I could not pass up. I am very happy I did and am guilt free.   
Love It!