ID: B001NPDKWQ-R34QCQ0TDONZFA-A19F0K2W8LMFOW
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV6-1050US-16-0-Inch-Processor-Premium
ReviewerID: A19F0K2W8LMFOW
ReviewerName: Joseph Grenon Awesome Restorations
Date: May 12, 2009
Helpful: 9 of 14
Rating: 2.0
Title: Disappointment abounds
Content:
I am not a geek, but have been using computers since 1988, and have become somewhat literate.
The specs on this thing looked good. I thought I saw that it had a s-video output and a fire wire port. No s video, and I finally located the fire wire port, I think by going through my collection of old cables until I found one with the right fit for the computer and the external hard drive's fire wire input. Does not seem to be as fast as the USB connector though. 
There is a remote control to run the tv function, but I have not been able to figure out how to get either to work, and I accidentally stumbled upon the slot to store the remote while i was looking for the slot to install a game card. No slot for the game card, but there is a place for the remote. none of this is illustrated in the internal documentation inside the pc. It might be in the paper manual, but if there was a paper manual in the box, i must have lost it. 
within a week of purchase, the screen started to flicker. I contacted HP email support and did what they told me. The flickering got better, for a couple of hours, then started up again. I contacted HP again by email, got more instructions, and the problem got worse. In frustration I called HP support and spoke to a female operative who gave me vague and incomplete instructions on resetting the BIOS. After a contentious exchange, she consented to send me a box to return the notebook for service. It will be gone for two weeks. HP continues to assure me that all the problems will be solved, but I am not optimistic. In addition to the screen issue, the Media Smart Resident TV program stopped working. 
I was also mistyfied why the screen saver would not start up as scheduled in the control panel, only to discover after two weeks and 3 friends that the screen saver cannot work if I have my external mouse plugged in. 
The Altec Lansing built in speakers are about as crummy as you would expect to find in a laptop. 
I am stuck with it now I guess.