ID: B001FA1NZK-RDR5VXNEHK7H4-AIPJK5O8JYWCX
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Generation-without-iPhone-Software-Previous
ReviewerID: AIPJK5O8JYWCX
ReviewerName: Average Joe
Date: January 18, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Apple has won me over
Content:
I have always shunned Apple and it's products. The main reason was the lock down of music from the iTunes store. Now that Amazon and other sites are selling music in DRM free MP3 format, I don't have to bother with the iTunes store. This is my first apple product and I think it is a great product. I have owned a couple off brand MP3 players like the Creative Zen.
Likes:
It is always on. I don't have to wait for it to boot up.
Great Screen - very bright and clear
Love how it turns off when I unplug a cable from the headphone jack (Like when I am in a car and plug the cable that connects it to the radio)
Touch screen is very accurate
Speaker is very useful. Not the best sounding, but very useful
Randomizing music really works. (The Zen seemed to always play the songs in the same random order)
Very compact and light. (When compared to the touch, the Zen is a brick)
Haven't found any software bugs
Syncs very quickly.
There are a lot of free apps and games
Battery life is great
Cons:
Accessories are hard to find.
Too many ipod models with their special connectors leads to mass confusion. It is hard to find accessories that truly work. Some products say they will connect to 2nd generation but fail to mention that charging won't work. Even most employees at Electronic stores are clueless. They will tell you their guess and act like it is reality. (In my experience at the stores I go to, most of the time they are wrong.)
iTunes software is taking longer and longer to load. 
iTunes is ok. It doesn't make playing just one album under genre very easy. I have to uncheck everything every time and then check just the album I want to hear.
Apple seems to think that people want to use a playlist for EVERYTHING. I'm sorry, if I just want to hear some specific music, I don't want to create a playlist.
iTunes store - DRM.. enough said
Music seems to be distorted at louder levels. 
I may be unique, but I want to have the ability to take my music with me to any product. When I finally move on from Apple products (which won't happen for many years) I want to be able to take my music with me. If I purchase music from iTunes and don't pay extra for the non DRM, MP3 tracks, I won't be able to port the music over to a new non apple device. 
Amazon and other DRM free MP3 sites have made my acceptance of the ipods much much easier. In fact, I would still be using other brands if these sites haven't come along. Sorry Apple, but I will not allow my music to be forever locked down to only your products. Repurchasing my music just so I can use a different product is not a viable option.
All in all, I love the touch. It's easy and fun to use. It is very portable and is a very handy device. I have found it to be a device I carry everywhere with me. With my Zen, that wasn't the  case, it was just a MP3 player that I would use in the car, and only that. I would recommend the touch to anyone who wants a very good MP3 player/game player/etc.