ID: B0017YUX5A-R3VDEKAFI8R2L0-A10NY9FBJVMIXE
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3670-WindTunnel-Anniversary-Canister
ReviewerID: A10NY9FBJVMIXE
ReviewerName: Cindy Andrews
Date: October 16, 2008
Helpful: 80 of 82
Rating: 5.0
Title: Hoover S3670 Anniversary WindTunnel Bagged Canister-Excellent Vac!
Content:
It's been a long road to get to this particular vacuum. About a year ago, I bought a used Filter Queen that was touted as the best canister on market.  I hated it from the start, would just push objects across the carpet instead of picking them up. DREADED using it, it was so cumbersome and didnt have any modern features, such as auto cord rewind. So finally was able to sell that, even lost a few bucks on deal but just wanted it out of the house.  
Then I bought what I thought I wanted, a Sears model. Have had a Sears Progressive before but the quick release feature broke on it (a piece of plastic inside tube, could not be fixed) and now it was quick releasing too quickly.....
So I thought that would be a good choice but once I got it home, it just seemed flimsy and cheap. Didn't even work so well. So back to the store it went. Seems Sears products are getting flimsier and are not the same quality as of just a few years ago. 
Did a bunch of internet research and came upon this Hoover model. Was not even aware that other vacuums,other than Sears, had the quick release feature. This is my major requirement, and was pleased to find another option than Sears.  All reviews I found spoke highly of this vacuum, so I ordered it sight unseen and it arrived yesterday. 
Well I am most pleased!!! Just taking it out of the box the quality seemed superior to the Sears model I had just returned. Also very sharp looking, and it works great!! Super long cord, telescopic wand, really generous sized hardwood floor attachment and it also has this odd shaped onboard brush attachment , that I am in love with. It is the perfect shape to clean your baseboards and with your adjustable wand, there is no need for alot of uncomforable bending. Great for a tall gal!  So I am now a very happy neat freak, finally have a vacuum I am happy with and look forward to using!!!