ID: B0013FJBX8-R2E6RNZS44RJ92-A1KGB11F94FOEG
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB470LL-15-4-Inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: A1KGB11F94FOEG
ReviewerName: Rus Healy
Date: November 30, 2008
Helpful: 20 of 20
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent
Content:
In more more than 25 years as a computer "power user," this is the first Mac I have ever owned. I had never considered Macs to be relevant to me in several key ways, including the proprietary, non-Intel hardware and lots of "funky things" about the old Mac OS. However, I had also become dog-tired of the Wintel boondoggle--machines needing to be rebuilt on a regular basis, blue screens, virus hassles, etc, etc. Supporting family computers was even more of a pain. "Dad, what does this error message mean?!" &lt;sigh> Clearly Macs are now a viable alternative for technical business users (okay, they have been for a while), so I took the leap even though the hardware is very pricey, competitively speaking.
I'm absolutely delighted with this purchase. Everything just works. Although I'm still finding my way around in some areas, I am reveling in the joy of a human-use-oriented user interface. I installed VMware fusion based on my comparisons between it and Parallels, and on my experience with VMware on other platforms. I exported my work machine with VMware Converter and imported it into Fusion. Works great. Performance is at least as good as it was on the old machine (2.4 GHz Core 2 Duo, 4 GB RAM)--and stability is much better. Integration of Windows apps into OS X is excellent using Fusion's Unity mode. I have not had to revert to my work-issued HP laptop even once since making the jump.
The only challenge I had, and it was minor, was installing the RAM upgrade. I bought 4 GB RAM at the same time as the machine because I wanted to have the full memory capacity, especially for business apps and VMware Fusion. The upgrade isn't difficult (unlike the Mac Mini!), but it does take some care and two sizes of small screwdrivers to complete. Eight screws have to come out, and four of them are quite small. Take care to keep from dropping any of the smaller screws into the machine when you're reinstalling them. Cover alignment is also important to get just right, or the battery/HDD hatch doesn't close properly. As with any project, put all the screws in before tightening any of them.
Unlike other reviewers, I have not found the high-glare, glass display to be a big problem. Glare is sometimes an issue but reorienting the machine slightly minimizes the inconvenience. The display is gorgeous, very much in keeping with the overall product design and quality. The glass trackpad is excellent, with intuitive, tunable multitouch features. The MacBook Pro runs much cooler, and quieter, than any laptop I've used over the last 5 or 6 years as well. The milled aluminum case is both rugged and attractive, as well as providing a great heat sink for the high-heat components.
In the wish-list department, I would appreciate having more than two built-in USB ports, although I can migrate at least one device to FireWire to take advantage of that port. Also, the front edge of the base is slightly uncomfortably sharp for resting my hands or wrists. Lastly, I find it annoying to have to buy a $20+ adapter cable to connect an external VGA monitor. The adapter cable is also too short--but this isn't a review of the cable. All that said, these issues are not enough to drop my rating below five stars. This is an outstanding laptop. I like OS X enough that I have already added a Mac Mini as the family machine, to rave reviews among its three primary users. How can you beat that?