ID: B001GCQ3KM-R1YZ64R7XYTRTV-A3RKPP9QT474EX
Category: MP3Players
Product: SanDisk-Sansa-Video-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A3RKPP9QT474EX
ReviewerName: Mustang Sally "Diet Hater"
Date: November 26, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Why buy an iPOD when there's Fuze?
Content:
I have owned the 8 GB Fuze for several months now, purchasing one after I had a chance to see my brother's.  The menu is user friendly, and it's simple to download music from my CDs even without using the included Rhapsody software (really for purchasing songs online).  I love that it's non-proprietary, and I have had no problems with downloading and playing.  I haven't really played with the video feature, so I can't comment on that.  I have recorded off radio, and that was acceptable.  It stores and shows pictures great.  The earbuds that came with it weren't great (seemed to be a short in one of them).  I emailed the manufacturer, and didn't get any help, so purchased a decent pair of earbuds at WalMart for under $10.  The battery life is good... usually lasts all day while I'm working (so 9 hours).  
There were a lot of people concerned about not being able to play while using the USB charger.  Easy solution found online:  plug it into a USB port on your monitor (if available), where the port doesn't transfer data and only supplies power to the device.  Works like a charm at the office, but doesn't apply to my laptop at home.  I recently purchased optional MP3 cable for the car, a wall charger for home, a clear case for the player,an additional 8GB card (ordered what I thought was only 1 card from Amazon, and received two).  I have almost 500 songs stored, and still PLENTY of storage room left!
I considered an iPOD before purchasing the Samsung, and am SOOOO glad I didn't.  I see what my kids go through with iTunes, and I want no part of it.  My Fuze can handle anything I throw at it.
There were comments on the internet about the Fuze freezing up, but I haven't had any problems with mine.  I may have a newer model.
I think this is a great product, good value, and a perfect alternative to the iPOD.
12/6/09 - Don't try to load and play WAV files.  I had a bunch of funny Christmas songs (all WAVs), but after I downloaded them into a new album on the Fuze, it couldn't play any of them.  It kept cycling through, one after the other, probably looking for something that it COULD play in that album.  I finally had to do a hard shut down (because I couldn't scroll to any of the menus) just to get out of the annoying loop!  This has really been my only problem so far, though.