ID: B001ET5U92-R3SUJDSNVGRM5L-AEDE0XNLWCRGC
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D90-12-3MP-Digital-Body
ReviewerID: AEDE0XNLWCRGC
ReviewerName: D. L. Wilson "leebythesea"
Date: February 23, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Amazing Camera
Content:
I have been an avid photographer since the early 1980s.  In that time I have seen a spread of photographic technology that ranges from silly (1980s Kodak Disk Camera anyone?) to sublime.  The D90 stands almost completely on the latter description.  I use this body with 3 lenses usually - a wide-angle zoom, a telephoto zoom, and a 50mm primary.  Image quality is truly limited only to the photographer's skill, available imagery, and lens quality.  As an advanced 'prosumer' I generally shoot in either Program mode, Aperature Priority mode, or full Manual mode.  The controls are intuitive and fast, allowing for fine-tune adjustments without significant delay.  The built-in Creative Lighting System flash master is ingenious - I have used the wireless remote flash option (CLS flash sold separately) for a number of shoots to get wonderful results that the paltry built-in flash could never achieve.
Indeed, the flash is one of my few complaints on this camera:  It is poorly controlled with the iTTL system - it either shoots too sharply or its power is so low that night shots are sketchy.  Definately get a 'real' flash - it is worth the money!  The second complaint I had was the rear LCD monitor - under the 30-day warranty it quit working, showing only b&w lines across the screen.  It is disappointing that anything would break in the first 30-days like that, but I guess that's what new warranties are for.  Before it malfunctioned it worked beautifully though - excellent image rendition and the colors were magnificent.  The third area is the gimmicky video mode.  I have used lower-quality digital cameras with much better video modes, but then again I really have no intention to use the D90 as a video cam so who cares anyway!  The last quality area I was disappointed in is the video output to HD-TV.  The images were mediocre at best when shown on TV - to the extent that I thought I shot the entire display out-of-focus and over-exposed!  Alas, printed on paper the images were as-expected so I think the translation to TV was the issue.
But for everything that matters on a D-SLR, this camera records phenomenal images - including very large prints, flawlessly reproduces color, works well in low-light conditions, is simple enough for a novice to use (just put into 'Auto' and shoot away), and sophisticated enough for an experienced photographer to truly enjoy.
...btw, I forgot to comment on the Live View: I have found that this is a useful tool for those times where you want to capture a great image but just can't get it by squinting through the traditional viewfinder. I sometimes catch a shot of bridge architecture or a sunset while driving when I can't safely stop (not that photography at 70mph is safe either...) by using the Live View. First, I set the focus to manual and focus to infinity (autofocus is not happy in LV at car speeds for some strange reason). :) Then I just point and shoot a handful to review later! 
Update 2/27...  I received my warranty replacement a few days ago and everything works like a charm.  Color consistency between the two cameras is perfect - even when changing the various White Balance settings and comparing the results.  I expect that this camera will be a strong tool for quite some time to come - so assume that no further updates is a good thing!  :)