ID: B001EJ71BC-R3775QV0BX5OPO-A4QXA2K759I4G
Category: MP3Players
Product: Latte-Player-Built-Transmitter-Silver
ReviewerID: A4QXA2K759I4G
ReviewerName: Kenneth Carvajal
Date: September 5, 2008
Helpful: 9 of 10
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great product!
Content:
I received the item a few days ago and was very happy with the packaging.  I immediately opened the box and started playing with the device. 
My initial impression is that it's very sleek looking.  The chrome housing makes it look very unique.  Scrolling through the menu was painless.  The buttons took a little pressure, not much - which works for me since I typically have it in my pocket when commuting to and from work.
I tested the video play back and was highly impressed.  It seemed choppy, but acceptable.  It may have been the file, not sure.  (I'll provide more feedback on converted movies shortly.)  The built in speaker is a great feature, and you could watch movies without using headphones if needed.
I tested the headphones that it came with.   Even though they do look nice, I wasn't satisfied with the sound, even after playing with different eq settings.  They're in-ear but wouldn't sit in my ear very well.  That could just be me.  I used my Shure in-ear headphones and was pleased with the sound.
Charging the device was painless.  Simply plug in the wall charger.  Just make sure you have the slider to the ON position.  When it's in OFF position, it acts as if you have it connected to your computer to transfer files.  When connecting the unit to your computer, initially I thought it had to be in OFF position since I received an error and the drives wouldn't show.  But I accidentally plugged in the device while in ON position, and it recognized it.  So I'm not clear on the ON and Off slider since it seems like holding the "Play/Pause" button will turn the device on and off.
About transferring files, this was also painless.  I added a 2GB mini SD chip.  Not the Micro, unless you have the adaptor for the mini SD.  I opted for the mini an d use an adaptor so I can use the one in my blackberry as well.  I renamed the drives on my computer so I can easily identify which is which.  Again, transferring files to either drive was very easy.
I installed the software that came in the package to convert movie files to avi.  No problems with the installation.  Once installed, you can add a bunch of movie files and let it all convert one after another.  I started a bunch before going to bed and checked the following morning.  Transferred the files, and enjoyed them on the device.
Battery life is pretty good.  I changed the settings to save power by having the screen automatically turn off after 5 seconds.  This feature doesn't apply to movies.  I also changed the backlight to the lowest setting.   I really didn't need it to be at the brightest setting so this works for me.  I tested the battery life after listening to 40 minutes of music during my morning commute.  I then tested it with movies and played 2 in a row, roughly 3hrs and 50 minutes total.  The battery was still at 75%, then shortly 50% after.  So I would go with the latter.
Overall, I'm pretty satisfied with the device, and certainly the price.  I'm just annoyed by the dust behind the screen already.  It would require for me to open it to clean it.  It's not that bad, just wish it was sealed so no dust would get behind it.  That and turning the power on takes getting used to.  A few times, even as I write this review, I wasn't sure if it was on.  You'd hear a click thinking it's on, but nothing appears on the screen.  When you think it's not on, then the screen comes up.  Might just take some getting used to on my end.  Still a good device and would recommend it.