ID: B00176AX6W-R3BVKTCX3J2AG4-A11HZS5E55U6TH
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Digital-Media-Player-Red
ReviewerID: A11HZS5E55U6TH
ReviewerName: Xan I. "xan_i"
Date: February 7, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 3.0
Title: Incredible Product, Terrible Software
Content:
I love my Zune, but the software and some of the features seem like they were just thrown together.  I would have given this product 5 stars if it wasn't for the software.  Basically, you can't use Explorer to load music and videos.  You have to use the buggy Zune software.
Good:
1 - the interface is smooth and intuitive.  Much better than the iPod.
2 - the sound quality is great.
3 - great storage for the price.  I've loaded stacks of CD's and I've barely made a dent in the memory.
4 - Wi-Fi (nice, but you'll probably never use it)
Bad:
1 - The pictures are all viewed in landscape mode which means that portraits look tiny because they are not auto-rotated.
2 - The video quality isn't as good as the iPhone.  When I view the same files on both, the videos on the Zune get vertical lines through the screen as the camera pans.  The iPhone is smooth.
3 - I don't like the sync feature.  I turned off the auto sync feature for the audio so that I could delete music out of the "My Music" folder to make space for more music.  When I started the Zune software, I watched in horror as all of the songs I spent hours loading onto the Zune delete from the Zune right before my eyes!!  There was no way to undelete, so I had to reload all of them.  There is also no warning before it deletes songs.
4 - no EQ (they dropped the EQ feature in favor of the wi-fi)
5 - You can't use the Zune as a portable hard drive.  Come on, Microsoft, 80 gigs of unaccessible memory?
Overall:
I love my Zune and I'm glad I bought it.  I use it all the time (now that I've gotten used to how the software operates), and if they can work out some of the kinks in the software, it will be awesome!  
If they drop the sync feature and allow you to load songs using windows explorer and fix the photo viewer, I'll give it a solid 5 stars.