ID: B001EQ4BY0-R2A1SALB8ZYM5H-A2W1BJTCXN4U0T
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-50D-Digital-28-135mm-Standard
ReviewerID: A2W1BJTCXN4U0T
ReviewerName: R. W. Strauss "FreeMan"
Date: June 7, 2009
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: A GREAT Leap Forward.....
Content:
To date, I have owned several Canon DSLR cameras.  I've owned the Rebel XT & XTi, I've owned the 1D, 5D, 60D, 30D, 40D and now I own the 50D.  
I will start with the "CON" aspect of the 50D;  It is not a full-frame camera.  That's it!  Cons are finished.  
On the positive side, I've never owned a better camera. Period.
The 50D is fast, shoots with VERY, VERY little noise, and offers the finest resolution I've experienced to date.  Over the years I've moved from an intense amateur to now working as a photographer on a professional level.  As such, I wanted the best tool I can find within my $1500.00 budget, the 50D allowed me success with money to spare.  
What my bucks bought was a great camera I can use in low light quickly, as adjusting ISO is faster and easier than on my 40D.  Also, in fast, sports like action, the camera allows for a quick, almost "Shift on the Fly" type focus.  This is an outstanding tool for the sporting events I have been contracted to shoot.  
I've found this to be a camera on which all of my lenses work, including my favorite 15mm F/2.8 Fisheye.  I am delighted with the simpler "Live View" function that now pops on with the push of a single button.  I've found the HD Quality of the viewer allows me to more quickly assess the actual quality of my shot.  And, with 15.5 MP, my shots have better definition, a richer, and more robust detail than ever before.  This is even more evident when I print larger (13X19" and above), photos.    
I recommend this camera as highly as I can recommend any technology, it's the best on the market today.  I am sure that within the next 3-5 years, Canon will market a faster, more powerful camera perhaps using the newer DIGIC 5 processor, and a more dense field of mega-pixels.  However, in cameras as with computer systems, one cannot wait for the "Next Newer, Better" item, you can only buy for today.
And, today...  There is no better camera in it's class.  If you need an upgrade your Canon product, or if you want to start with the finest affordable, professional camera on the market, this is IT.