ID: B001QMOUSE-R15Q3UFXLWQCFR-A1L1PWGRDOZG7A
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Bunn-BTX-B-Thermofresh-Coffee-Brewer
ReviewerID: A1L1PWGRDOZG7A
ReviewerName: Wendy N. Baker
Date: March 12, 2009
Helpful: 20 of 20
Rating: 3.0
Title: Think carefully before you buy this model
Content:
We received this coffeemaker as an upgrade when our last Bunn was recalled due to a manufacturing defect.  (NB:  Bunn has excellent customer service and is conscientious about recall notifications, and I recommend the company highly.  Unfortunately, I cannot recommend this product.)  We have been fans of Bunn coffeemakers for years; our first home machine provided us with at least 14,000 pots of fresh, hot coffee before it succumbed to the ravages of time and Minnesota's hard water.  We tried very hard to like this model, but ultimately its flaws outweighed its benefits, and we are now shopping for a new coffee maker.  The flaws include:
An incredibly drippy carafe.  There does not seem to be any way to predict when it will drip or in which direction.  Sometimes only a few drops fall from the carafe; sometimes, it spills 1/4 to 1/2 cup of coffee across the countertop.
The internal assembly (which Bunn fans will know is cleaned with a tightly coiled metal reaming spring) is much more difficult to clean in this unit than in our past ones.
This model also seems far less forgiving of our hard water than previous ones and requires cleaning much more frequently.  We've had trouble with calcium buildup even with softened water in both the brewer and the lid of the carafe.  This and the completely opaque carafe (in combination with our increasing age and forgetfulness) have led to some huge messes in the kitchen, with coffee running over and even into the cabinets below the coffee maker.
Like most thermal carafes, this one does not keep the coffee warm enough for us, and we go through coffee very quickly.  I don't see this working at all for most people.
On the brighter side, you will have a fast cup of coffee most of the time, and you will be doing business with a company that deserves its good reputation.  If you ask me, though, I'd suggest you buy the model without the thermal carafe unless you own stock in a paper towel company.