ID: B001LNXWSW-RMCJ6UNT0WMW2-A16QODENBJVUI1
Category: Laptops
Product: HDX18T-Fingerprint-Wireless-N-Lightscribe-SuperMulti
ReviewerID: A16QODENBJVUI1
ReviewerName: Robert Moore
Date: April 25, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: An absolutely outstanding multimedia laptop
Content:
After twenty years of using nothing but desktops, I finally decided to get my first laptop.  I did a large amount of looking around and finally decided on a laptop in the HP HDX series.  I wanted a big screen and since I didn't (and don't) plan on carrying it around a lot, I wasn't too concerned about its size.  Portability and weight weren't major considerations.  If they are for you, then definitely don't get this.  It is something of a monster, quite heavy.  Furthermore, as far as I've been able to discover, there is only one case that will accommodate a laptop this side, one by Targus.  It is less like a messenger bag or pack back and more like a suitcase on wheels.  But except for the size, this is a great laptop and I'm completely delighted with it.  
There is really only one advantage to buying a preconfigured laptop.  You can get it quickly.  But I would recommend people who really know what they want to do their own configuration.  I wanted a computer that was really strong on media, so I opted for the 1 GB video card, a Blu-ray burner, and a TV tuner.  I also got the bluetooth wife modem so that I wouldn't have to use a transceiver.  The computer has been exceptional in this regard.  The screen is bright and unbelievably detailed.  Blu-ray discs don't look quite as good as they do on my Samsung high def TV using a PS3, but it is close.  The built in speakers are amazingly decent for a laptop.  Although I prefer using headphones for movies and videos, the speakers are good enough for two people to watch something together.  But for music while I type I usually just use the built in speakers.
Just about everything else about the computer is great as well.  I find the keyboard comfortable to use and the action on the keys are really nice.  I don't like the touchpad, but that would be true for absolutely any laptop.  
If you are looking for a laptop that is superb at multimedia but that doesn't have to be especially transportable, you can't do much better than this laptop.  My one piece of advice for anyone configuring a laptop is to put your upfront money almost entirely in things that cannot be upgraded easily later.  Put off the printer if it means you can get a faster processor.  Don't worry about the size of your hard drive, because there great inexpensive external hard drives (you can get a 1 TB today for less than $150).  But also plan on doing other things to extend the life of your computer.  I got the Blu-ray burner, but I plan on getting an external DVD drive to minimize the wear and tear on the internal drive.  I got a single battery now, but plan on getting a second one later.  But it is pretty difficult to upgrade your processor speed or video card later.  Of course, if money isn't a consideration for you (it was for me), go ahead and get everything right now.  But whether you have to economize or not, this is a great multimedia computer.