ID: B001E6A8LA-R21YAHTEEEOB5J-A11D7F1BCOQX3H
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Sanitaire-SC412A-Commercial-Vacuum-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A11D7F1BCOQX3H
ReviewerName: L. Dimkoff
Date: May 31, 2007
Helpful: 15 of 15
Rating: 4.0
Title: Easy on the back, and the ears
Content:
I've been using this vacuum for the better part of a year now, and wanted to spread the word about it!  Canister-style vacuums are better than uprights for use on hard floors, but they are cumbersome to maneuver.  This unit is carried on your body like a backpack, with shoulder straps and a waist harness, so only the power cord trails behind you.  
   Although you must carry the weight of the machine, the design is actually much better for someone (like me) with back problems because it is easier to maintain a proper body position.  (Ever noticed how you lean forward when you're vacuuming?  That is terrible for your lower back!)  The machine is also very lightweight (ten pounds or so?) and well-distributed across the back; it should be manageable for most adults.  All of this really comes together when you get to your stairs.  For that job, I use only the flexible hose (no extension wand) and the small accessory tools.  I kneel on one step, and can comfortably reach the next couple of steps by hand.  I still can't believe how easy that job has become for me.
   Another outstanding feature -- even carried so close to the ears, this machine is quieter than any other I have used.
  The design is not perfect.  In particular, the joint of the extension wand to the flexible hose is a problem.  It takes muscle to attach the two pieces, and they can work loose during use.  Storing the power cord is also a nuisance -- it's not retractable like most canisters, and there are not even pegs to wind it around like a standard upright.  A little padding on the shoulder straps would be nice, too.
   Finally, I have seen canister vacuums that come with a rotating brush attachment for use on carpet.  This vacuum has an accessory that is meant for carpets, but high-quality, plush carpeting needs to be agitated.  I have an upright for the carpeted second floor in my home.  If I could find that accessory, I'd pitch the other machine completely.
  I hope Sanitaire will work on those features in future models because backpack vacuums deserve a bigger market share.  I'd like to see this machine get its due notice.  In the meantime, I highly recommend this unit for anyone with mostly hard flooring in their homes.