ID: B001AIZ42K-R1YREZFMNZS2JG-A1GWNBFZQ2PWOI
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Rainbow-Canister-Bagless-Vacuum-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1GWNBFZQ2PWOI
ReviewerName: C. Morris
Date: December 24, 2007
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 1.0
Title: Clumsy POJ.
Content:
The Rainbow vacuum cleaner has been around for many
years, but the manufacturer has not made any improvements. For those
of you who are replacing their old Rainbow , read on.
                1. The water container at the bottom of the unit will
                   fall off ,the flimsy plastic wheeled base , whenever
                   you try to pick it up by the handle.The wheel base is
                   only a friction fit..no clamps.
                2. The motor assembly clamps to the water container 
                   securely , but the gaskets will not keep the water
                   from sloshing out.
                4. The hose on the upright motor/assembly (the part you
                   use to vacuum the floors with ) is too short .
                5. The holder for the accessories is a very flimsy
                   plastic ring , that sits over the main motor and
                   has the tabs to wind the cord around. No retractor
                   for the cord. This ring will defy gravity , fall off
                   and spill all the accessories to the most difficult
                   places in your house. Most will opt for removing this
                   ring before using the vacuum , but that means 
                   unwinding the cord first.
                6. Last and not least is cleaning this thing after use.
                   All the dirt is now a muck inside the water container.
                   The top of the container has a curved top to keep
                   water out of the motor assembly . It is also  
                   permanently attached the container. To clean it I do
                   the following : Unclamp the container from the motor.
                                   Take the container outside to the
                                   garden hose.Invert the container and
                                   hose it out. Doing this in the house 
                                   would clog the drain ...instantly.
                                   Next you need to dry the container ,
                                   storing it wet is not good for the                                  
                                   motor. Also, there is an basket that
                                   must be removed from the bottom of the
                                   motor and cleaned with a small bush
                                   and lots of 409.
                                   
                7. $ 475.00 is real real bargain for $1600.00 worth of
                   aggravation. But why put up with it , just to clean a
                   floor ?