ID: B001A5OWWG-R13XU8G6QQPU7F-A3M78642QA852V
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Mechanical-Stabilization-12-60mm-FL-50R
ReviewerID: A3M78642QA852V
ReviewerName: R. Sarma "rssarma"
Date: September 27, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Takes some learning if you're coming from the E-1
Content:
I love Olympus DSLRs and currently own the E-1, E-500, E-510 & E-520, I had been holding out on the E-3 due to it's high price, but I eventually caved in and got one as I was finding my E-1 trailing in terms of resolution and missed the IS on the newer bodies.
My first impression as I picked up and used the E-3 was very alien....I just didn't feel at home, especially after having used an E-1 all this time. The button layout is also very different from what's on the E-510/520, so I found myself on uncharted territory as this camera needed some "re-learning". Also, the grip didn't feel awfully right as the front control wheel didn't fall naturally on my index finger as it did with the E-1 and I couldn't help but wonder why Olympus had changed the E-3 so much?? Wouldn't it have been easier for E-1 users, considering they've used it for so long, to move to a camera which looked and behaved similarly?? But all this became moot after one weekend of shooting with the E-3. This is a very easy to use camera and the reason why the re-design was necessary was because this was a whole new camera!
The biggest improvements for me were:
1. Incorporating in-body stabilization.
2. On-board flash, this can be a life-saver when you require fill flash without a bulky FL-50.
3. Bigger and brighter LCD, big step from the E-1!
4. Lastly, twice the resolution offered by the E-1.
Build quality of the camera is excellent, although the battery door and the swivel LCD seemed like the weakest points of this body and I remain sceptical about these two areas of the body to date.
In terms of IQ, this camera goes head to head with any APS-C DSLR out there and can produce stunning images up to about ISO 1250. Once you go beyond this, the IQ degrades substantially and it's no longer on par with its APS-C rivals. As such I would recommend using this camera below ISO 1250 to get the best possible IQ out of it. In terms of JPEG quality with regards to colours and tones, the E-3 is simply stunning! In case you do wish to use higher ISOs, I would recommend shooting RAW and carefully processing as there is visible banding in the shadows when you go to ISO 1600 and upwards. At lower ISOs sometimes I saw noise in the skies, but this seemed very inconsistent and I'm not sure why it appeared in some images and and wasn't visible in others.
Overall, this is an excellent pro-level four-thirds camera and balances very well with the SHG Zuiko lenses. If you have the money and are willing to work within its limitations, this camera can offer some stunning images and I would highly recommend it.
Personally, I kept my E-1 and gave my E-3 to my brother as I'm still able to pull the same IQ from the E-1 as I can from the E-3 (apart from resolution).