ID: B0015UVV0W-R1M4D9WSYBVIS2-A2H8NP7I9LF6O8
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Vornado-EH1-0032-28-TouchStone-Full-Room-Electric
ReviewerID: A2H8NP7I9LF6O8
ReviewerName: B. Kline
Date: March 7, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 1.0
Title: Great idea - terrible implementation ...
Content:
Had 5 Vornado heaters so far.  4 broke in under 1 years actual duty.
One on/off switch broke, one thermostat broke, and two just would not start.
That said, when they work they move a lot of air and distribute heat
into that air well.  At first, maybe for a long time in a larger cold
room it is irritating, becuase you want heat and what you get from the
Vornado is more wind, and it feels cold.  After a while, if the heater
is sized right for the room, the air gets warmed and the wind is not
a wind but a warming breeze.  A great idea for a heater, and it works
well.  But, any other heating element with a fan will do a similar job,
because a heater is guaranteed to turn the heat of the power it uses
into heat, by definition.
The bad part is this.
1. The blast of cold air at first can be very offputting.
2. The heater has a very bright and irritating blue light
   that is aimed up, so you have a remote but you cannot
   read it anyway, what is the point.  The light really is
   bright enough to keep you awake and you cannot turn it off.
3. The thermostat is nice, when it works, apparently this is
   is a delicate part that often breaks ... two of them for me.
   Every time the fan turns on or off you hear a relay clicking,
   and again, if it is night and you are asleep it will register
   with your brain at some level.  It's too loud.
4. Some of these heaters have quiet fans, and some of them seem
   to be rather loud.
5. My experience with 5 of them is that only one still runs
   more than 2 years later, and they cost much much more than
   the average heater.
6. It has been mentioned about a burning smell, and I think that
   dust will collect or get sucked into the machine and then if
   it get wedged against the elements it seems to give off a
   smell.  Mine will do this only occasionally if I have not
   used it in a while.  If you have a dusty room you will notice
   this.
I'm irate that I have spent a huge amount of money for these heaters,
about $500 and for that they break down to the point I am afraid to
buy another one.  They seem to be getting cheaper too, as I got the
VH2 and it broke in one year, and the on/off switch got stuck in the
middle position.
I'm very disturbed about the quality control at Vornado and the parts.
They have a good idea, but they seem to be clueless on how to make it
into a reliable ergonomic product that will meet people's needs.  That
said - I do like them when they work ... at least the old first one I
got still works.  It is simple, quiet, not lights, no sound.  They should
have stuck with that.