ID: B001P05NJ2-R2QSWN25L359SM-A14H3K7VSKNMN2
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MC026LL-15-4-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A14H3K7VSKNMN2
ReviewerName: MacTips Podcast
Date: April 11, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Apple's New MacBook Pro: Reviewed
Content:
Introduction:
After keeping millions in what seemed to be perpetual suspense, Apple finally broke the ice, and, in October, released completely redesigned MacBooks and MacBook Pros. I like many Apple users, ordered my MacBook Pro within a week of its release, (October 20th) and, with great anticipation, opened the box on the 30th. Unfortunately for me, upon inspecting the MacBook Pro that I had ordered, I discovered a fair sized chip in the aluminum casing behind the screen, on the bottom right corner. I immediately called Apple to see what they were going to do to rectify the situation. After waiting on hold for about ten minutes, my call was answered by a very nice man, who apologized profusely for any inconvenience. Unfortunately, there was not much he could do, so I was transfered to a product specialist. By this point, you are undoubtedly bored by this story, so let it suffice to say, that after another two weeks I was finally presented with a working MacBook Pro, as well as two red iPod Shuffles as an apology. 
Apology accepted, Apple. Now, onto my `test' configuration. This exceptional `Book came with a 2.8 gigahertz processor, 4 gigabytes of RAM, two graphics cards: an NVIDIA 9600M with 256 megabytes of shared video RAM, and an NVIDIA 9600GT, with 512 megabytes of dedicated DDR3 video RAM. To top this baby off, it also has a 128 gigabyte solid state drive, to access data at light-speed, with added security. In addition, like every other new MacBook Pro, this one also came with a 15.4 inch widescreen display, backlit keyboard similar to that on the MacBook Air, an iSight camera and microphone, an all aluminum unibody enclosure, and a buttonless, multi-touch trackpad. So, without further ado, lets begin. 
Screen:
I love this screen. First off, it is lit by LED's, which means it is brighter and more efficient than its earlier iterations. It also has `instant on' capabilities, meaning that lights up as soon as you open the lid. Now, nearly everybody's number one gripe with this machine is the glass that is covering the display. While it increases the richness and vibrancy of the colors, and increases the screen's durability, it is also reflective. The reflection can, in direct sunlight, cause an admittedly distractive reflection. This does not especially bother me, though, because you can simply rotate the laptop a few degrees to the left or right to completely counteract this problem. This makes glass an ideal material for a laptop screen, in my opinion, because if the glare gets bad, you can always just rotate the machine. Now the new LED Cinema Display is another story...
Unibody:
At the release of this product, Apple was keen to stress the design of this product, including its new `unibody' enclosure. So, what's this all about? Well, in a normal laptop, many interior parts must be added to keep the the computer from twisting or torquing. What Apple has done is replace those parts with a single machined piece of aluminum, thus cutting down on weight and increasing durability. Basically, the metal top case that has holes for the keyboard, trackpad, speakers, and power button is the `unibody.' Honestly, the laptop does feel sturdier, but the weight remains the same, at least for the Pro. I really don't think anybody but an engineer is going to seriously consider this a serious feature, though. 
Keyboard:
As I stated in an earlier review of the MacBook Air, this is, hands down, Apple's best keyboard. I like everything about it. I can, though, notice a slight difference in the feeling of this keyboard when compared with the MacBook Air. The keys feel a bit springier... and I like it. The backlighting is very nice, too, and I noticed that it gets brighter than the Air. One should know that the baseline MacBook does not have backlighting, while the higher end MacBook has `dumb' backlighting which lights the keyboard for five seconds after every key strike, rather than relying on an ambient light sensor. Otherwise, the keyboard is the same. 
Trackpad
The MacBook Pro is sporting an all new trackpad, which is made entirely of glass. Honestly, you can't tell that its glass. It feels exactly the same. Well, except for the lack of buttons, that is. Yeah, it appears that Steve hates buttons so much that he is attempting to remove them from Apple products... one button at a time. I'm pretty sure that `Jony' Ive is in on that too. It's the great Apple conspiracy! In all seriousness, though, the lack of buttons is a little annoying at first, but you soon get used to it. As a replacement, our fruity friends made the entire trackpad click, which is actually a pretty good alternative. As I said earlier, it takes a while, but you get used to it. Also, they made the bottom corners extra clicky to make it feel more like the old trackpad, while making it progressively harder to click the farther up the trackpad you get. 
Battery:
Apple has made it easier than ever to access the battery on its new laptops. No longer do you risk marring your pristine machine's finish with a coin. Now, all that you need to do is push two latches and remove a small cover to obtain access to both the hard drive and battery. Also, the batteries are smaller, which is nice if you are carrying a spare. What is interesting to me, though, is that apple styled it after the original iPhone, with the aluminum and black plastic two tone thing. As far as battery life is concerned, its great, as long as you use the 9600M. Once you switch it to the GT, it starts sucking power like there's no tomorrow. Overall, with normal use, (like web surfing, video chatting, and listing to music) I get about 3.5 to 4 hours of battery life. When I really start using this beast, and yes, it is a beast, (Adobe CS4, Logic Studio, Final Cut) I get a somewhat pathetic 1.5 to 2 hours. Oh, well. Can't have it all, can we?
SSD:
While the SSD is an added option, I thought it would be a good idea to include it in a the review, because it is a serious option that many consider. First off, for those of you who don't know, an SSD, or solid state drive, is a replacement to the hard drive in your computer. It is basically a giant usb stick which has no moving parts, which means increased durability. To prove it, some Samsung engineers even dropped it from a building and it still worked. A SSD also increases the speed at which your computer accesses, reads, and writes data. Because there are no spinning platters, data is accessed much more quickly. And, as an added bonus, it is impervious to magnets. (To the best of my knowledge. I know what you're thinking, and PLEASE do not try it.)
Design:
This baby is a cold, hard, stunner. The black keys and trim around the display, coupled with the aluminum body and silver trackpad, are purely sexy. Top that off with a glowing white Apple logo, and ding! ding! ding! We have a winner. For me, its the little things that impress. The perfectly machined speaker holes and the hidden IR receiver and iSight camera really show how the brilliant folks at Apple stressed after every single detail, no matter how small or insignificant. In redesigning their notebook line, Apple showed that they make powerful machines. Not white, plastic toys. The only complaint that I have is that there is not enough difference between the designs of the MacBook, and MacBook Pro. I mean, speaking from a purely design point of view, why shell out a thousand dollars extra for something that looks just like the cheaper version? 
Performance:
Lets start with the facts. On our Xbench tests, our MacBook Pro, as configured, scored a coveted 175. Lets compare this to the previous generation MacBook Pro, with 2 gigabytes of RAM, and a 2.4 gigahertz Core 2 Duo processor. That scored a 50.  Yeah, that's right. In the words of Steve Jobs, "Its a screamer!" Also, after throwing pretty much everything Main Stage and CS4 could throw at it, this puppy still didn't break a sweat. As a final test, we put Windows Vista Ultimate 64-Bit on it using boot camp. After taking all Windows Vista, the worlds most demanding operating system, had to throw at it, it scored a 5.7 out of 6 on the Vista Experience meter! This thing's unstoppable.
Conclusion:
After using this exceptional machine for a month, I am proud to report that it is worth every penny. It is truly worth an upgrade to anybody who can afford it. In addition, Apple's initiatives to make this notebook `green' make it even more appealing. This is destined to be a very, very, successful product.
Alex Carlson-- The MacTips Podcast