ID: B00138MVH8-R3G8U705A9B2OC-A352VZTQN46533
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Sony-DSLRA350X-SteadyShot-Stabilization-55-200mm
ReviewerID: A352VZTQN46533
ReviewerName: sabari "sabari"
Date: December 8, 2008
Helpful: 12 of 13
Rating: 4.0
Title: Goods and Bads and Tips  from a Beginner
Content:
Writing this to help a new buyer to make a decision :-) 
The Goods ....
1. 14.2 Megapixel ....the best in its class and price range
2. Live view LCD....a must have feature for thos graduating from point and shoot digital cameras
3. Anti shake control (image stabilization) in camera body .... Can use any lens compared to canon rebel and Nikon where the image stabilization is in the lens (which is expensive)
4. Good form factor ...fits nice in hands and Stylish 
5. LCD tilts out ....very nice feature which opens up a lot of new "camera angles" for the picture.
6. Very fast autofocusing ....and produce really great pictures 
7. Options to shoot RAW, Jpeg & RAW+Jpeg 
8. Controls are very easy to use.....
9. Even beginners can take amazing pictures with this camera....dont get fooled by those pictures in various websites....( i had this doubt before buying and later found that the canon and nikon pictures given in net are mostly taken by hardcore proffessionals...where as sony pictures are from beginners )
10. Battery last long...it is of least worry
11. Nice fitting of parts .....and no squeaking sounds....except a little inside the grip under the trigger.
The Bads....
1. Slowest continous shooting in its class !! if you like your camera to take 3-4 pictures in a second go for cannon or nikon. This shoots continous pictures almost like a point and shoot.
2.Auto Exposure bracketing step is 0.7 which is way too Low in comparison to canon rebel and nikons....if you are into HDR this is not the camera
3.Sony lenses are very expensive and have limited choices....well i am yet to try others like tamaron or minolta .....carlZeis is too expensive !
4. the strap supplied with the camera is lousy
5. Body made in Japan...kit lens made in china ....and it shows the quality difference.
6. Flash timing is few micro seconds slow...then what ? some "subjects" who have higher reflex action will blink their eyes and they look "sleepy" in the pictures (I always blink and my wife dont so i look sleepy in all pics) 
7. this camera and all SLRs use Compact flash card!! No SD,No M2, No produo, no micro SD......I realised this only after getting the camera and i didnt find this info in anyother review so i am writing it.so better order a 4gb card ( yes you need that) with 30mb/s speed when you buy this camera.
Tips
1.dont forget to buy a LCD protecting cover along with this camera ...LCD is tiltable and generic covers wont fit.
2. dont forget to buy a filter either UV or polarizer ....this will help you to keep finger prints out of your lens...and it is lot cheaper to change a broken filter than to change a Lens!
3. Dont get fooled by the high iso noise talk in net.....all cameras produce noise when in high ISO ....
4. This camera can take great pictures with stunning quality but
5. Remember that Buying an SLR will not make you a Photographer...it will only make you an SLR owner !!!
Happy buying .......Enjoy this Camera !!!it smells quality !
By the way i uses 18-70 kitlens ....and so far happy ...and enjoying the ride ;-)