ID: B001XURPQI-R1VYXO6Q7QR1TG-A3MAWKBNY7SD2C
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-T1i-Digital-Body-Only
ReviewerID: A3MAWKBNY7SD2C
ReviewerName: S. Pedi
Date: August 13, 2009
Helpful: 17 of 20
Rating: 4.0
Title: I bought it for "Low Light" shooting and I'm happy I did!...
Content:
I seem to have a problem that I simply don't like to use the flash!...I don't know where this "Low light" mania came from, but its my problem and I
always wanted to have a camera that would let me shoot good photos in "existing light" and "low light"....
I'm no photographer!.... but what I do with my Canon T1i is simply have some fun shooting, then making a slideshow with music that I add, and I'm
a happy old guy!..
In the past, I've always been almost sick to my stomach when I saw how my photos taken in "existing light or low light"  came out!..
I mean inside the house or inside the theater where what you see is what you get!...
This "low light" mania all started with my daughter who's a New York City entertainer. So, of course when she first asked me to photograph her
performance I knew I could not use the flash. And, no flash is ever allowed in all theater/clubs, etc.... so, it took a while to figure out that the lens
that came with my first DSLR was too slow, having a maximum aperture of 3.8....
I bought a wonderful Canon 50mm 1.4 lens, but soon found out that I needed a "ZOOM" in order to get closer to the performer.
So, I bought a Sigma 18-200 3.5 Optical Stabilization lens and that worked quite well because it had the Optical Stabilizatiion which
gained me two or three slower shutter stops...
But, I still wasn't satified. I continued to do research on the newer DSLR's and their ISO capabilities. I saw that the Canon Mark 5 II had a fantastic
and acceptable high ISO abilities.. but it was much too much money for me. So, I researched all those DSLR's that were in my price range and
happy to say that the Canon T1i was the one that I picked and purchased..
I"ve shot it as high as ISO 6400 and I can truly say, that I'm very happy with it. If your next thought is about "NOISE".....forget it!.....it don't bother me
that much at all!... Look folks....I've "Captured the moment" and I'm happy as a pig in mud!... what more can I tell you!..
I now can go into a very very dark theater/club and shooti in all the freaking darkness they can throw at me, and I just keep shooting away
And, I also bought a sensational Canon 17-55 2.8 IS lens that should also get some credit for all those super "Low Light" shots..
And, the reason I've giving this wonderful camera only four (4) stars is because of its horrendous "SHUTTER" NOISE!... what in the
world was Canon thinking when they put this great camera together?..
Look, I'm happy with this camera. And at my late age of 78, its probably going to be my very last DSLR, and I'm as happy as a pig eating slop!.
And, my "Low light" shots come out great!..yes at even ISO 6400. It can even go up to ISO 12800, but I'd use that if its actually pitch dark!..
And before I forget, the movie mode is one of the reasons I bought this camera!. I don't use the very best resolution, I use the one in the middle, whatever that is, 720 X something and the movies are quite sharp.  Sad that Canon didn't make the audio in "STEREO", but I probably can't tell the difference
anyway.