ID: B001D089XQ-R1TOC0SZEGQJZM-A2SN0YIHGZ2AEX
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-160-Internet-Media-Tablet
ReviewerID: A2SN0YIHGZ2AEX
ReviewerName: Mr Big
Date: December 28, 2009
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 3.0
Title: Mr.  Nieto
Content:
In october 2009; I purchased this portable DVR for my wife to replace a stolen AV 700 Dvr, She was so excited to get a replacement unit and she could not wait to star programing it with her favorite Tv shows. But unfortunatley after spending worthless hours trying to record T.V. shows, using the archos 7 T.V. scheduler, we decided to call "customer support" to find out why we could not seam to be able to get this thing to work with our satellite receiver( Dish Network) , but unfortunatley when we called Archos, and inquiried about the missing codes need it to program the Archos 7, shows from the receiver, we were told by "customer service " from Archos, that the codes need it to program it were not available, and that they did not when they will be available if they ever. Not the answer we wanted to heard. So we waitted until now, march 2010 to check with the so called " Archos Customer Support" to check why is it that we can still not record shows from the T.V. scheduler, and inquiried again if they have an answer for us,  all we got was a very cold person on the other side of the phone line, providing us with a  very simple... "I Apologize for this inconvenience, but you can still record your T.V. shows by doing it manually ". Not the answer we need after 5 months of frustation, and the worst part of it, is that when you talk to them, they is a deathly,very cold silence on the other side of the phone, is almost like if they put the phone down so they do not have to listen to your complain, even we you are not making the complain personal, they still do not care, and when you ask for an ETA from them to when the problem will be pix, their answer again is, " We Do Know when",............ Translation,.... "we don't care".  So for now, until somebody at Archos decides to really take care of their customers, and at leats offer us a posible solution, please stay away from any archos products, not only you will save your money, but also your peace of mind. I really think of keep buying APPLE products like the I-Pod touch I have, because evethou you pay for everything you need from them, at least their products really deliver what they promise, and they have a really CUSTOMER SUPPORT. Thanks and be aware.