ID: B001B8KGJK-R297YJF9D7SBTG-A2KRGOSJ97EP29
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Kaz-Honeywell-Cool-Touch-Heater
ReviewerID: A2KRGOSJ97EP29
ReviewerName: Y. Messallam "RidgeRunner"
Date: February 16, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Quiet, Efficienty, Light, Safe, Effective
Content:
Folks, this may not be the instant on heat you were hoping for, it's not a replacement for an hvac system. But consider this, the unit is absolutely silent. It weighs about a smuch as your laptop, it has a thermostat which controls the temperature pretty well, and it's way more efficient than a lot of other heaters on the market--it heats a room in up to half the time as a traditional radiant heater (oil filled), and uses significantly less power while doing it. The only downside to this heater is that it takes a good 30 to 60 minutes to heat up a room, depending on the size of the room. Why? because it is a convection heater, which means it depends on having a good convection current to really shine. How do you set it up to work the best off of convection? Great question-- make sure there is good airflow into the bottom of the heater: no obstructions within at least 3 feet of the bottom. If you set it up immediately beneath a window it is even more efficient as you get a natrual convection currenty happening in front of the window. 
A great thing about this heater is when you turn it off, it stops giving off heat right away, whereas one of those oil filled units will keep giving off heat for up to 45 minutes afterwards. Also, the fact that it's light enough to pickup with a finger (yes one finger) means that it's super easy to relocate. I've had plastic wheels and handles break off of oil filled heaters before, at which point they're downright dangerous. 
You read reviews about how people don't like that it gets hot at the top, well I'm sorry, but it is a heater (operative word being heat). And if you want a heater that warms up your room nice and fast without getting hot, well, I hear homes are cheap in florida. 
I have used several heaters--oil filled, ceramic with blower, and the like, but none has satisfied me more than this. My room size is 12x20, and it will get toasty in here, not to mention the fact that the insulation in my room is terrible.