ID: B001ACSF36-R14LH3OL8NGDUS-A11MSTUC2ODQ0P
Category: AirConditioners
Product: Whynter-13-2c000-2dBTU-Portable-Conditioner-Frost
ReviewerID: A11MSTUC2ODQ0P
ReviewerName: Confused "Hannah"
Date: August 27, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 9
Rating: 1.0
Title: Not good for very humid weather
Content:
I ordered this unit thinking it was what I wanted for my upstairs bedroom because I wouldn't have to give up one of the two windows and then could move it to the extra room while sewing.  I live in MA and it worked fine the end of June, beginning of July. It cooled the room in no time at all.  We then had a cold spell and didn't use it til August when it became brutally humid. I woke up after 2 hours of use and it shut itself down.  Found out that the reservoir filled up.  I drained it (which isn't easy since the drainage hole is very close to the floor) it turned on by itself and then in 2 more hours did the same thing. I contacted the company.
This is what they said:  "Thank you for your purchase of the Whynter SNO ARC-13W portable air conditioner. Can you please put a pan under the drain plug of the air conditioner and remove the drain plug at the back of the unit? Once all water is drained out, the air conditioner should come on automatically. 
  
Please make sure that the exhaust hose is not blocked or bent and able to vent the hot air with moisture to the outside. It is common that the unit is not able to exhaust the moisture collected if your room temperature is low or if the outside is raining or extremely humid. Also, sometimes when you first start running an air conditioner, the self evaporating system may not function in full capacity. 
Also, you may want to set up the air conditioner to have continuous drainage by inserting a drain hose to the drain spout if you live in a humid location."
In order to put a pan under it, I had to elevate it on blocks.  The pan filled up every three hours so I had to set my alarm to empty the pan.  
The company offered a drainage hose but because it doesn't have the capability of pushing out the water, I would have to elevate the unit above the bottom of my window as to put the hose out the window.  I contacted them again.
This is what they said:  "Thank you for your reply. In order to set up continuous drainage, we recommend to elevate the air conditioner. We can send you a continuous drainage hose which you can connect to the drain plug of the air conditioner. to drain out the moisture continuously."
That defeats the purpose of "portable" so I guess if you live somewhere where it is very humid, this may not be the unit for you.