ID: B001P05NKG-R1BIIGU4LF43C3-A8BYCPY4U82ZB
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB990LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A8BYCPY4U82ZB
ReviewerName: Matt
Date: February 18, 2010
Helpful: 6 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent Hardware and Software
Content:
This review is aimed at anyone who is basically tired of dealing with Windows.  I have used Windows in a home environment since the early 90's and I'm also a professional in the IT field, where I only work with Windows-based PC's on a daily basis.  Windows and mid to higher end PC's definitely have advantages compared to OS X and the lack of connectivity ports Apple implements in their notebooks can become a nuisance, but OS X and the Macbook Pro line of notebooks offer something for everyone.  However, it is clear to anyone who used Apple hardware that they do make great products.  These notebooks have an incredibly solid build and the screens, while the majority being glossy, are simply fantastic.  You will quickly see how much of a higher quality screen is used on the MBP's compared to your everyday monitors and other notebooks.  My only gripe with the screen is that I really wish the 13 and 15 inch models supported higher resolutions.  Finally, as someone who hated to use trackpads on notebooks in the past - the large, glass trackpad on the Apple notebooks is by far the best I have ever used.  I really enjoy using the oversized and very smooth multitouch trackpad on these MBP systems.
Reviewing this product could go on for days, since 90% of the people who now own a Mac previously used Windows and wanted something different, therefore all of the comparisons between hardware and software would take an immense amount of time.  My primary theme I'm going for here is that, with a Mac, you have a much less chance (basically nil) of wasting time and money from unknowingly obtaining garbage you can pick up from the Internet.  The one aspect of OS X I fully admire is that I no longer require antivirus and anti-malware applications running in the background at all times and having to scan for problems every day/week.  Even though I'm in the IT field and know how to keep myself safe on the Internet, there are millions of Windows users who simply don't know any better.  That isn't their fault, nor is it completely Microsoft's fault that so much malware is out there for the Windows OS's. However, I can guarantee if you use OS X, you will not see any crazy software issues that plague from the Internet, nor will you need to purchase and constantly run AV-based software.*
It isn't surprising, but still annoying that so many people can easily get their PC's infected.  Then what?  Your normal user will ask a knowledgeable friend or send it to a place like the Geek Squad to repair the system.  Your friend may do it for free, but computer shops will definitely ask for a nice amount of cash just to remove the malware, virus and/or trojan infection(s).  I've been using Mac systems since early 2006 and this is my first review regarding an Apple product.  Why?  A previous co-employee asked me to repair his daughter's laptop yesterday.  It was in awful shape, software-wise, and quickly became a nightmare to get it running stable.  I wasn't able to perform my "normal" repair tasks since I didn't have any Windows installation discs on hand or spare hard drives formatted for Windows, so the 140+ malware files and trojans that were detected needed to be handled both in safe mode and normal startups of Windows.  Along with cleaning the bloated registry, removing unnecessary startup programs and installing over 20 various Windows updates, it took me nearly four hours to get her system running in top condition again.  Multiple scans, several reboots and a severely infected/slow environment from the beginning are what required the amount of time to be taken.  And this isn't some freak occurrence.  There are literally thousands, if not millions of people who have Windows systems in similar conditions.  My point?  At this time, you will never experience anything remotely close to what Windows users deal with everyday (I mean that as a negative) when using Apple's OS X.
Finally, this review is geared towards anyone who has had all sorts of problems on Windows PC's.  You do have alternatives in which you will not experience those issues.  Simply put, OS X is an easy-to-use operating system and you would be moving to a safer, more clean computer environment.  Just like Windows, there is a large amount of third party support.  You will not be missing out on any or much work-related and entertainment-based software.  Some may disagree with me, but practically everything I do on the Windows side is available to use on OS X.  Whether it be from Apple itself or from third parties.  Perhaps not the same applications from Windows, but there are equivalents that work great.  I'm aware that Apple products can have their problems, more so on the hardware side at times.  But like any computer you use, there can easily be times where parts malfunction.  Apple uses third party hardware just as every PC manufacture does, so don't expect your Mac purchase is 100% unavoidable of hardware problems.
I'm not a fanboy of  Apple, Windows or specific PC hardware in general.  I am a fanboy of having a great computer experience without having any major issues, though.  Windows and PC's are easily capable of that but more time, work and money may be involved.  All have their advantages and disadvantages.  Personally, I would rather use Windows for work-related tasks, gaming and web development.  However, I love using my MBP at my home primarily for entertainment and graphic design.
* I'm aware there are several free antivirus and anti-malware applications available to download (I would suggest Microsoft Security Essentials and Malwarebytes for Windows users), but the fact these applications need to either be constantly running in the background and/or ran + updated at least once per week quickly becomes an annoyance after you use a Mac system for a period of time.  However, I do suggest Mac owners to run some sort of AV protection if your Mac is on a network with Windows PC's.  Your Mac can still obtain bad files through web browsing, email, etc. but the Mac will not be affected.  However, if there are Windows PC's on your network, then those PC's can still acquire those bad files from your Mac system.  OS X won't become crippled in some form from obtaining files from Windows over a network, but Windows can still be infected from bad files that could land on the Mac OS.