ID: B0012YA85A-R3386IL8AUNM6F-A2U271PKGEM8TP
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Camera-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A2U271PKGEM8TP
ReviewerName: Taresa L. Hernandez
Date: December 21, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Stunning Photographs Out of the Box
Content:
This was my first purchase from Amazon, and I was absolutly stunned. They had the best price, amazingly fast shipping and they sent me an actual Canon lens with the camera. I took the big leap from a Fujifilm FinePix S700 (7.1 megapixels) to this new Canon EOS. My yearbook teacher allowed me to use the XTi for a little bit and I was amazed at the quality, rugedness, and the speed of the camera. I wanted to get something that I knew wouldn't be completly outdated once I get into college as I plan on being a photographer. This camera operates so much better in low-light situations than my last one that words can not even describe it. There is practicall no noise even at ISO settings as high as 1600. The software that was included is amazing, I can not get enough of the EOS utility. I might be doing a shoot for one of my teachers for christmas cards and I plan on bringing a laptop with me so that we can all see the pictures right away. I have rather large hands so a bigger camera was welcomed with wide-open arms. The IS on the lens is amazing, if switched off I could tell an imediate difference in the quality of the photograph. I was so excited to be able to have a camera with 'bulb' in its settings, this setting is extremely useful for astro-photography or very low-light situations, as it allows the shutter to stay open as long as the shutter button is held down. If you do not have a remot control yet, I wouldn't advise using it as any shake at all will be apparent in the resulting image, so use a speed like 30", that should do what you need it to. F-Stops vary greatly which is always welcome in my back, my Fuji had F5.6-16.8 while this one has f5.6-38 in manual mode. The flash also rises high which helps a lot in distance as well as using the flash while taking macro pictures. I would recommend this camera to absolutly ANYONE who is looking for a pro-camera.