ID: B001XURPQS-R9H540XF6F505-A3TI3AAKYT207
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-T1i-Digital-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A3TI3AAKYT207
ReviewerName: Peggy C. Wehe "Picture taking Grandma"
Date: December 12, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 8
Rating: 4.0
Title: Did have issues but they were fixed
Content:
This is my fourth Canon Rebel - 2nd Digital.  I bought it as an upgrade to my four year old Rebel 350D and I am very disappointed in the camera.  One of the reasons I wanted to upgrade was to be able to take faster pictures.  I have four toddler grandchild, a dog and a daughter with a horse.  In taking pictures of the toddles it is important to be to be able to snap a number of pictures in a row quickly.  The camera allows that BUT I can only take about 5 to 10 pictures before the camera displays a BUSY message and will not allow me to take another pictures for at least 5 seconds.  I have missed many good shots of the babies because of this.  I called Canon twice and was told that this is the way the camera operates because it has so many automatic features.  When I complained the second time they told me to send the camera in for service - and this is two weeks before Christmas.  I should have used the camera more with  in the 30 days that Amazon allows returns so I could send the camera back and just use my old one.  This camera is surely not worth the money.  
As promised that I would update this review after I received the camera back from Canon.  The service was very speedy - less then a week turn around.  There was nothing with the camera to tell me what they had done but there was a sheet on using the camera with the flash - 20 quick shots is maximum for safety reasons.  The camera did work much better and I did not get a "busy" after just 4 or 5 shots inside with the flash.  I am using a fast SD Card in the camera.
I spent the money for two when I bought the camera.  I used the camera at a baptism the day after it was return and it worked well but I was aware of the 20 quick shot rule.  The pictures were some what on the dark side.  I purchased the Canon 430EX II Flash and it came the day before Christmas Eve.  In reading the manual for the flash it clearly states that 20 shots is maximum for safety reasons.  I gave the camera and flash a good work out today (Christmas Eve) and am happy with the results.  Inside photos are much brighter with the 430EX.  I did take some pictures outside of one granddaughter pulling another granddaughter in the wagon being chased by the dog and got some amazing action shots.  
I do think that there was something wrong with the camera I got but what ever it was it seems to be fixed.  I learned that even with what I consider an expensive camera you can only take 20 quick shots with low light using the flash and then the camera / flash need to recover.  
I also appreciate all the folks who had some good suggestions.