ID: B001EQ4BY0-RRZSW9WBAL7DC-A16AAO00BIBCMT
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-50D-Digital-28-135mm-Standard
ReviewerID: A16AAO00BIBCMT
ReviewerName: T. Murchison "tmurch"
Date: August 28, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Canon EOS 50D
Content:
I have owned 20D and 30D prior to purchasing the 50D. I upgraded primarliy for the increased resolution and larger display size. Have taken many random shots to get a feel for menu and controls. 95% of my pictures stay digital(archive, website, and BluRay slide shows. I find that the increased resolution to be readily apparent when viewed from BluRay DVD on a 50" plasma TV. The menuing  still requires a learning curve, but more intuitive than prior generations. Live view is nice, but not something I will use much except for shooting over a crowd etc. Build quality is outstanding as in prior generations. Until I take my next trip will not have any more pertinant feedback. The one thing that I found to be a problem on prior generations stll exists, although I have never heard anyone else comment on it. Most of my photography is done on adventure trips (Africa,Middle East, Thailand, etc). These are rough and tumble trips, bouncing around in open Land Rovers, Camelback etc, and I can't count in the thousands of photos I have taken, how may "Once in a lifetime" shots have been spoiled when a shot comes with no time for setup, and not notice until 20 shots later that the mode dial has been knocked to a position other than the one I thought it was on. It seems like a lock would be simple, but as I said this may just be me. I paired it with the Tamron VC digital zoom lens and feel that they pair well when such trips don't allow carrying extra equipment.
Considering that the 50D was about $400 cheaper than my 20D if feel that this a real value for the quantum leap in resolution,onboard processing power, increased LCD size, sensor cleaner etc. I find that the larger LCD is great for viewing shots, but for someone who wears glasses really helps navigate thorough the menus.