ID: B001G5ZTMM-R2MTXM8S1ZC6BD-A3532D2UV9CLCU
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-EOS-5D-Mark-II
ReviewerID: A3532D2UV9CLCU
ReviewerName: Joseph C. Angert
Date: March 19, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: Canon 24-105 with 5d II
Content:
I spent 6 months trying to decide between this lens and the 24 70 Zeiss Vario Sonnar (Sony). It was a tough call to finally make this decision. In the end I really wanted the extra zoom range this lens provides. Saving $600.00 doesn't hurt either. Aware that many minor flaws could be addressed in after-processing, I finally made this purchase.
I have other Zeiss lenses including another Vario Sonnar and now that I have this lens I can say that the Zeiss lenses are optically superior, but the difference is minor. I'm keeping this lens and I'm happy with it. (The 5D Mark II provides nice support as well -- no complaints).
The build quality of this lens is excellent -- completely satisfied.
Center sharpness is excellent across the zoom range.
Edge sharpness is fair to occasionally disappointing, but not worse than expected.
Vignetting is pronounced at the 24mm end with noticeable distortion but correctable.
CA (red/green) is most obvious at the 24mm end and pretty bad at the edges, again not worse than expected and at least partially correctable. I was very pleased to see no center CA even under stressful conditions.
Auto focus speed is impressive.
The built in IS is icing on the cake. I was able to use it to advantage right away and not raise the ISO. I shot successfully with the lens at 105mm and a shutter speed of 1/80th sec. -- impressed again.
I give this lens 4 stars for overall optical quality.
I give this lens 5 stars for overall price/performance value.
The camera build quality is excellent. Controls are well laid out and the camera is easy to use. The battery charges quickly and the battery life is excellent.
------------------------------------------------------
The purchase experience through Amazon was frustrating, but in the end a good deal. I decided to take them up on the 12 month-no-interest deal. Four phone calls and two days of irritation later it went through.