ID: B001111JQ6-R68TB7E2YP6D4-A29RKUHDKO64U9
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DCC-1400-Coffee-Central-Thermal
ReviewerID: A29RKUHDKO64U9
ReviewerName: Lisa Marie "happyhome"
Date: December 31, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 1.0
Title: Not user friendly!
Content:
I purchased this coffee maker because I wanted something that would keep our coffee warm since we hold regular meetings in our home and the coffee oftentimes sits out during the meeting.  With the Cuisinart, not only did the coffee NOT stay hot for any length of time, it never even brewed hot enough to begin with!  The first few pots tasted HORRIBLE, and then eventually the coffee did brew with a good flavor, but it was never hot enough and certainly didn't get any hotter once it finished brewing lol.  
If that isn't bad enough, the cuisinart was NOT a user friendly coffee maker.  In order to fill the water reservoir, I needed to stand on a step stool and use a small measuring cup to fill it (you can't possibly fill it with the coffee carafe because logistically it just doesn't work!). The reservoir opening is waaaaayyyy too small and water spills everywhere as you're pouring (yes, I do know how to pour water).  It's nearly impossible to see inside the reservoir to know when you've reached the marks for the number of cups that you want to brew.  I'm short but I asked my average height husband to look for me and he had to pick up the coffee maker and tip it toward the light and look down into it to see where the water level was.  BAD NEWS.  I got this coffee maker on sale for half price (still over $70!) and it bothered me every single day for the month that I owned it that I had paid that much for something so poorly designed.
I had it for a month and returned it to the store.  The best thing I've done in a long time.  Immediately following my happy return I took a ride to the thrift store and found a brand new Farberware 4-12 cup perculator that automatically switches to "warm mode" when the coffee's done brewing and it brews super hot and keeps my coffee hot all day.  For $3.