ID: B001E71H9Q-R3RBNCNTMSCYGA-A1DQQC7E1W5QG7
Category: Laptops
Product: TOPSELLER-P8600-74542GU-12-1-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1DQQC7E1W5QG7
ReviewerName: Gerard
Date: September 3, 2008
Helpful: 15 of 16
Rating: 4.0
Title: Best portable laptop your money can buy at the moment
Content:
Well I spent a bit more than most and added the option of the 64GB Samsung Solid State Drive. From the reviews I read, the drive is the best in the market right now. Anyway, I first did some justice to my laptop and uninstalled Vista Home Premium and installed Windows XP Pro with Service Pack 3. Once I installed all the drivers, the laptop is very quick even with only 1GB of RAM installed. The wi-fi strength can be spotty at times because of the placement of the antennas, but it's something I can live with. The 3 usb ports is what got me looking further into buying this laptop as other laptops with a similar size like the Mac Air only has one usb port. And I don't really like bringing around a trendy looking laptop so the "dull", general Lenovo look works fine for me. I also love the full sized keyboard on this small laptop. It's a lot easier typing on this compared to the Dell 700M that it replaced. I ordered the 6 cell battery just get give me more time if I'm away from a power source. The video card on this laptop is capable of playing HD content like Blu-ray discs, but you need to order the docking station that includes a blu-ray drive on it (I think it was an additional $800). I felt I didn't need that as I'll be using my main desktop to view movies anyway. And that price to pay is a bit to steep. I choose getting an SSD drive over blu-ray since my desktop is already capable to playing blu-ray with a much large lcd display. The audio is nice since has to be capable of playing HD content too. Overall, I'd rate this a 4.5 out of 5 stars. Very portable and light even with the 6 cell battery I have installed. This laptop can be bought as a steal if you order with just a regular hard drive. The drops the price down significantly and to a very affordable level. Makes you really think twice about competition and what it has to offer.