ID: B00185XISW-R2YXR35VY8BQ08-AQOZKERA6J1TK
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Eco-heater-602-High-Efficiency-Electric-Whole-Room
ReviewerID: AQOZKERA6J1TK
ReviewerName: Emlyn Addison
Date: November 17, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: Excellent, for what it is
Content:
Based on many of the reviews here, we had purchased 4 of these heaters to supplement our expensive oil heating. I work from a small home office and so heating the whole house during the day was unnecessary. Instead we run the furnace once in the morning, and then once or twice at night, relying on these heaters to maintain the temperature.
We installed one of these heaters in an upstairs 10x10 office, another in an upstairs 10x10 bedroom, and the 2 others downstairs, shared between our living room and dining room (about 12 x 24 in total). They were easy to paint, but as we have old horsehair plaster walls, not all of them were easy to install; it took some creative work and a trip to Home Depot.
In the bedroom and office these work quite well. The bedroom is quite toasty (the only insulated room), and after a few cold New England nights we've found that it has performed very well. Winter air is already dry, so we don't keep the heater on all night, but rather heat up the room before bed and then have it turn on at about 5am (we use appliance timers).
The office heater could only be located all the way on the other side of the room from where I work, but it does a decent--not great--job of maintaining a temperature of around 60 - 65 degrees (and sometimes warmer towards the afternoon after it has been on for a few hours).
The downstairs heaters have a much harder job, because the living/dining areas are open to other rooms (kitchen, foyer), but they do an OK job of supplementing the hot water heat (probably by just a few degrees, though).
Surprisingly, our electric bill was only marginally higher, and far lower than running our A/C in the heat of summer. People really have to remember that these are intended to be ECONOMICAL units, not ultra, super, turbo-charged heaters.
Some notes:
- Yes, you can definitely burn yourself on the surface of this heater. It's not as hot as a red-hot space heater or a stove top, but it'll still leave a mark.
- Placement is really important, so read the safety/installation instructions and make sure that you have a sensible place to put one. ie: Avoid installing near doorways, windows and open entryways.
- If you have horsehair plaster walls like ours, you'd do best to line up one side of the heater with a stud, and then reinforce the other two screw holes before installing (I drilled out a 1/2" hole for each and then used multiple applications of spackling paste over a few days before drilling the final pilot holes).
- It's best to turn on the heaters AT LEAST 2-3 hours before you plan to be in a room. We have all of them connected to appliance timers...and be sure to keep doors closed while the room heats up.
Hope this helps.