ID: B001E532ZA-RPVIXUNQSJMYL-A9G5XNAQKICDP
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Bosch-TAS4511UC-Tassimo-Single-Serve-Coffee
ReviewerID: A9G5XNAQKICDP
ReviewerName: Steve & Jen L
Date: September 29, 2008
Helpful: 124 of 124
Rating: 5.0
Title: FINALLY!  Well Worth The Wait!
Content:
My wife and I bought the BRAUN Tassimo Maker about a year ago as a wedding present to ourselves and we LOVED it (use it just about every single day).  The BRAUN unit did have a few drawbacks that we would have liked to see changed:  Unit too wide, too LOUD, no cord storage, and that annoying "puddle cup" for unused/overflow water, etc.
We had heard the BOSCH unit was much improved over the BRAUN so we bought it this past weekend.  All I can say it BOSCH got it right.  Although we were a bit disappointed neither unit has a timer, the fact that the beverages are brewed so quickly (even faster in the BOSCH) that the inconvenience of not having a timer is really not a big deal.  Although the BOSCH is a tad bit deeper (longer) than the BRAUN...it has a slimmer width and looks much nicer on our kitchen counter.  The new BOSCH is still very simple with a similar one-touch operation...but with the addition of an on/off.  Our 11 favorite features of the new BOSCH Tassimo are:
1 - The noise has been reduced by at least 90%!  Anyone who has had the BRAUN will notice a HUGE difference with the BOSCH!
2 - FASTER brewing time.  Within a few seconds after turning the unit on and inserting a T-disc the unit will start brewing, unlike the BRAUN which sometimes took a minute or more for the "ready" light to come on.
3 - A more "solid/quality" look and feel.  This is especially evident in the T-disc housing.  It is a much heavier plastic and you don't feel like you are going to break it whenever you clamp down on a T-disc.
4 - Longer "piercing unit" that narrows down toward the cup.  This significantly cuts down on coffee splatter which was a real pain with the BRAUN.
5 - CORD STORAGE!  With the BOSCH I only pull out the exact amount of electrical cord I need making for a much better fit on the counter than the old coil and hide cord on the BRAUN unit.
6 - NO MORE PUDDLE CUP!  Although the storage tank on the BOSCH has slightly less capacity than on the BRAUN, we love not having to empty the "dribble cup" or soak up water in the base everytime the unit's base cup was removed to fit tall mugs!
7 - The Cleaning Disc is conveniently stored away in the back of the unit, virtually eliminating the possibility of misplacing it.
8 - On/Off switch! This is a nice feature for turning the unit OFF when going out of town, etc. rather than having to unplug it!
9 - Filter Change Indicator.  I like this feature, but I feel that having to buy filters every couple of months can get pricey.  We use "double filtered" water (filtered from our fridge and then filtered in the unit).  By doing this I am confident we can get twice as much usage out of the filters than those using unfiltered tap water...simply "reset" the filter indicator twice.
10 - The water reservoir on the BOSCH has a handy-dandy handle which makes it much easier to remove/fill/clean, etc.
11 - PRICE!  Considering the improvements on the BOSCH, I would have gladly paid the same amount as we did for the BRAUN (retail $169)...but at just under $140 this until is well worth the price.
I hope this helps those of you trying to decide between the two units!