ID: B0015YUMEY-R2IJD6WGWOK0B-A33IE4VMNVDRY2
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB076LL-17-inch-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: A33IE4VMNVDRY2
ReviewerName: Lover of Facts
Date: February 8, 2008
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: The most fabulous computer I've ever owned!
Content:
OK, I admit that even though I was told this was a super fast computer, I feared buying an Apple.  Why?  Because after 35 years of computer operation I had yet to ever own an apple, or even operate one for more than a half hour at a time while borrowing a friend's when I was traveling.
After only two hours of setting up my brand new incredible machine, and playing around a little bit with it (yes, I actually used the book and mostly the help icon), I am beside myself with thrilledness.  This is by far the fastest, nicest, easiest to use machine I have operated in 35 years.  I LOVE the dashboard!  I've already configured it with 8 of my special websites, including my stocks.  A split second and it all appears on the screen.
Really I can't say enough about this machine.  I read that someone was uncomfortable with the heat produced by the battery but the only time I noticed that was the very first time I charged it up.  Now even while charging the temperature is not uncomfortable.  And one of the best parts?  The life of the battery puts my former Dell computers to absolute shame!
I had ordered another Dell with the VISTA operating system a couple of months ago.  VISTA was so bad (in less than two weeks it was stalling on me, along with numerous other problems) that I returned the computer for a full refund ........ and spent a tad bit more money buying this incredible MacBook Pro.
My recommendation for anyone who's checking these out is this:  don't skimp on the fun stuff, like extra high speed RAM.  I put 3 gigs into mine of high speed and might even add 1 more gig as it is so awesome to play with something this fast.  I have 6 windows open right now, going back and forth between all, and in addition am operating iChat (pretty cool stuff) and this little baby is lightning fast.
This MacBook has made me a computer Princess!  I cannot envision ever returning to the PC world!!