ID: B0012YPMOC-RQ9AMWG0EIYPC-A3R00HLXQM36PC
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Portable-Media-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A3R00HLXQM36PC
ReviewerName: Addie Goodvibes
Date: December 15, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Creative  Zen Creativly out does 1st generation Ipod
Content:
The Creative Zen 32G Portable media player is handsdown the best flash based player on the market.
The Generous 32 Gb internal Flash memeory will hold even the largest collection of Music, videos, pictures or even documents. Its ability for adding storage capacity with SD card Expansion is a huge Plus, I store all of my Web casts (OWKA "podcasts") music on the player and have  afew movies and Pictures on a seperate4 gb SD card, The screen is a crisp vibrant display that suprisingly is not hard on the eyes while watching a movie or a kids show while waiting in a waiting room.  I can carry gb's of photos around to brag about my beautiful family.
The Video convert included in the software flawlessly converts Videoa to formats viewable on the Zen, you can download purchased movies and convert them for viewing on the Zen.
One of the best features of theZen and most of Creatives products is it's ease of use.  To add media you simple plug the player in to USB and drag and drop media through Windows Explorer. There isn't really even a need to use Zens included desktop software although in order to conver videos you will need the software. It converts a nd supports All music formats no need for Itunes, it's light weight, sleek design is an eye catcher.
My previous MP3 player is a creative I bought 5 years ago, it is still running strong, i use it for exercise as it is designed to be moisture resistant and is rugged, the Creative Zen 32g is not designed to take a beating in a gym or on an outdoor exercsion, although there are accessories that do add protection, I love it for the media capabilities long battery life and user interface. It even has an FM tuner!
For the money in my opinion Creative makes a better product with more features than I-Pod.  Creative even has their own Web cast site  named ZENCASTs, I down load all my tech, travel and Language Webcasts for lsitening anywhere I chose, the software that accompanies the Zen allows for easy organization of favorite Web casts.
Creative makes a reliable product  a very stable  and versatile functioning smart device, I highly reccomend Creative products especially the Creative Zen 32g
My Playlist summary-
**Webcasts ( Zencasts)-all downloaded free via Zencast or TWIT.TV
Leo Laporte The Tech Guy
Jumping Monkeys
Travel by Rick steves
Japanese language
The Week In Tech
National Geographic videoa
CNETs Buzz outloud tech news & revews
Wild ANimal Chronicals
***My Music favorites
ColdPlay
Barenaked ladies
Snowpatrol
Kaeli'i Rachel 
One republic
Blue October
Billy Joel
Chicago
Boston
Five for Fighting
Good Charlotte
IZ
Josh Groban
Green day
Lifehouse
Na Leo
Sugar Ray
Tear For Fears
Bon Jovi
The Killers
U2 
Tube
Weezer
WhiteHeart
Petra
Chopin Classical
Yuzu
***Movies
Curious George- ( I have to Young kids & yes Ilike the movie)
The Italian Job