ID: B0012Y89JW-R1IEIBXMX5N6H3-A9DBVDRHGDK2E
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-XSI-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A9DBVDRHGDK2E
ReviewerName: Matt W.
Date: January 4, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Pretty Nice so far
Content:
This is a pretty good camera so far, I don't really see many problems with it. However there are a few things that bother me right now, on is that it's a slightly smaller size than I need with my hands anyway, I did read the specs just the feel of the camera is a a bit off compared to my previous canon film slr's and there is no surprise there. Another is that the digital noise has been somewhat bothersome on some of my night photography but no more than anticipated, noise doesn't have the same charm that film grain has though. Aside from a few minor complaints about size and noise of the camera, I'd like to be able to step down to 50 iso or even 25 maybe that could be done with a firmware update down the line. And I would have loved it to be full frame at this price but I can't complain I don't have enough money to buy a higher end camera. The lens is nice but nothing fantastic, IS works good for about 2 or maybe 3 stops which is swell.  I've been using it heavily since late December and so far I feel confident in my decision to buy this camera. The colors are accurate and shooting in RAW helps to maintain great detail in the image. All in all its a nice camera for an introduction to digital nothing spectacular but its doing well enough for me.
On a side note I've been playing a lot with mounting other brand lenses on this camera coming up with somewhat of a lomo feel to the digital world without messing around with photoshop. So far I've used a holga, and diana lens and been able to produce some lets call them interesting images, still working on the best way to mount them but I'll try to post some images once I get it worked out. 
I hope the review helps and that I didn't babble on too much, its a nice camera but you get what you pay for don't expect the best but you can make great images from it still.