ID: B0019FJM7W-R2HVBPSIEP7PLK-AHD3NZHDUZ5I6
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-E520-Digital-Camera-Stabilization
ReviewerID: AHD3NZHDUZ5I6
ReviewerName: bdgilfry@wildchildpublishing.com "Editor"
Date: August 12, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Olympus service rocks!
Content:
I absolutely love the E-520. I have bought five lenses for it so far; my favorite for sharpness is the 50mm f/2 prime lens, but for extra wide, I like the 9-18mm. I have the 70-300mm as well, and it can shoot a bird at 200 feet and put it right in your face.
I am also very impressed with the kit lenses. I do a lot of manual focusing and shooting, and these lenses are sharp... truly unbelievable for the price, and they stand up well against some very expensive glass by other manufacturers. Over the years, I have spent a LOT more money for lenses that turned out to be inferior to these.
Olympus makes some of the top lenses in the world.
The menu on the E-520 was easy for me to understand from the start, but I've been shooting with SLRs for over 40 years. Even though the E-520 is called an "entry level" SLR, it might prove daunting for a beginning photographer. Nonetheless, if you are mildly familiar with f-stops, apertures, shutter speed and film speed (or equivalent), I think you'll find this an easy camera to operate. 
I have spent hours at [...] comparing studio photos and resolution charts as shot by various cameras. Olympus measures very well against the big money cameras in the studio shots. In the resolution charts, though, Olympus falls behind. So, if you need the absolute best digital image money can buy and you can afford [...], buy the new Nikon; or, shell out [...] for a Canon Mark II or III. All these cameras will give you better resolution than any Olympus camera.
BUT... Although the price of those cameras is many times higher than your E-520, the quality of their pictures is not much higher. And, by the way, in my opinion the E-520 shoots better pictures than the E-30 or the E-3.  
I don't do magazine layouts or commercial photography; however, on occasion, I do like to blow a picture up to 16x20 or larger, and the E-520 gives very satisfying results.
Moreover, Olympus has given me GREAT service. I have had to return two lenses for various reasons. In one case, Olympus shipped me a brand new lens; in the other case, they repaired the lens and had it back to me within the week; no questions, no hassle.