ID: B001KBZ972-R3ESIY9CIPKOMZ-A2SLXERPOHIM6H
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Mr-Coffee-MRX35-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A2SLXERPOHIM6H
ReviewerName: D. Carpenter
Date: November 8, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 7
Rating: 2.0
Title: I hate to say it but you really shouldn't waste your money on this machine.
Content:
I really do hate to say it, but you really shouldn't waste your money on this machine.  I read several negative reviews prior to purchasing mine...but went ahead and bought it anyway because I really liked the look of this coffeemaker.  Since it was a Mr. Coffee I thought it couldn't be all that bad. 
 Well, in some ways it isn't. The coffee was great and I liked alot of the features, however, it did have most of the problems reviewers complained about. It did indeed have an annoying signal to let you know the coffee is ready. It did in fact leak condensation from the corner of the filter basket. It's warmer plate did start to rust. I still liked it and could live with all those little annoyances. That is until I broke the carafe.  I then began the search for a replacement. I thought it would be easy to replace since most Mr. Coffee replacement carafes are just a trip the store away...not so here. I looked in quite a few stores and could not find one. I even brought ones home that looked similar but they were too tall by a fraction of an inch. Then I called customer service for Mr. Coffee and was told it was no problem for them to send the correct one.  I then happily waited for my replacement to arrive. I was not quite so happy when they sent me one of the same ones I had returned to the store. They tried again and sent the exact same WRONG thing again. (I even tried removing the black handle and lid and replacing them with the original brown handle and lid with no luck.) On my third call to customer service I was told that there are no replacements available for this machine and that there won't be in the future. The first two customer service reps were obviously incompetent and the third who actually gave me the bad news was the only one who listened and attempted to be helpful. I also checked Ebay for a replacement carafe to no avail. So please do not buy this machine unless you are certain that you will NEVER break the carafe. I'm on here now looking for a replacement.