ID: B001G4VSPA-R3PN0XRHLCFURZ-A2R6RA8FRBS608
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Bionaire-BH3699-UM-Micathermic-Flat-Panel-Radiator
ReviewerID: A2R6RA8FRBS608
ReviewerName: Matthew G. Sherwin
Date: December 2, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: it warms my heart--and helps me save a bundle, too
Content:
This space heater by Bionaire has worked very well for me--and this is its second winter doing a tour of duty to keep my bedroom warm! With the price of home heating going sharply higher these days, I have saved a good deal of money with this reliable, light weight portable space heater. I may not understand what "Micathermic" actually means; but I do know it works great!
Setup is a breeze--all you essentially have to do is place the (almost) flat panel heater into the two legs that act as bases to keep the heater upright. Then just plug it in and it should work rather economically. For the sake of safety, keep water and other electrical cords and objects away from this and, if you can, close any door to the room this is heating for the maximum effect. The temperature gauge is very easy to operate; just turn the knob one way or the other and you can easily control the degree to which the heater heats the area. 
They say that if it tips over it turns itself off automatically; but I cannot comment on this because this has never happened to my heater--at least not yet! The bases on which the heater rests are made of very sturdy plastic. There is a five year warranty but I doubt you'll need to use it--keep the instructions with the way to contact Bionaire just in case.
My only concern is that so many brands of space heaters might overheat when left on during the night. I would turn it off before going to bed. I know Bionaire advertises that it will automatically turn off if the machine tips over; but I still recommend turning it off at night just to be sure. 
Overall, I can't say anything truly negative about this space heater. Bionaire may call this a "Micathermic" type of heater and use even more fancy jargon but it's essentially a well-made space heater that saves you a good amount of money on those awful winter home heating bills. I highly recommend this reliable product and I doubt you'll be disappointed. The price is higher than some other space heaters but it's worth it.