ID: B001EQ4BY0-R11FKIFVJ8G92F-A3CIIYYQBV085Y
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-50D-Digital-28-135mm-Standard
ReviewerID: A3CIIYYQBV085Y
ReviewerName: Nutella lover "Nuts for nutella"
Date: March 4, 2009
Helpful: 8 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: This camera is absolutely the best for my family!!!
Content:
I have 3 young children and have recently departed the realm of point-and-shoot through the Rebel XsI (great camera). I was afraid of the size issue, of carrying a Dslr around and missing some good shots of the kids. However I was also disapointed at candid pics at their b-parties and indoor events (Christmas especially) for lighting (poor) and shutter speed.  The XsI was a great camera, but once I decided that sometimes it is definetely worth to carry a bigger camera, I also decided to have a really excellent one, since the extra weight and size when you go the SLR route is basically the same. I still keep a Canon G10 in my personal bag at all times, but I have to say I LOVE my 50D!!!!
I played with buying better lens for the Xsi (including the L series, HUGE 24-70 for $1,100, which I returned) but first, the camera felt absolutely unbalanced, with its body being very plastic and light and the lens being super well built as a tank and heavy. Then, I am a pixel lover and if there is a 15 megapixel that I can easily afford by selling the Xsi, than I had to do it. But I struggled with the decision for weeks and long story short, got the 50D and also bought the L lens 24-105 ($1,059) and I feel like I ARRIVED!!!! :o)
I am not a professional photographer by any means, and due to the constant activity of my kids, and wanting a "natural" pic, I always end up taking pics on full automatic mode.  The pics out of this camera are absolutely gorgeous, sharp, and make me very happy of the purchase.
Amazon has the best price around and I researched everywhere.  I bought the kit with the 28-135 lens, and am selling these lens on an auction sit - it gives me a profit!  But the pics from the kit lenses are also just wonderful, so don't feel you need to take the plunge on L lenses.  I know a lot of professional photographers out there say that megapixels don't matter, well I discord since when you don't want your kids to pose and be un-natural, you want the ability to crop it a lot! Plus the shutter speed is so awesome, that catches that little expression the moment it happens.
Hope this helps in your decision!