ID: B00125MHVM-R34YLREUL838J3-A2V5JSF1RQOT7R
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Sony-Digital-SteadyShot-Stabilization-18-70mm
ReviewerID: A2V5JSF1RQOT7R
ReviewerName: Robert Field
Date: June 21, 2008
Helpful: 13 of 13
Rating: 4.0
Title: Excellent camera
Content:
This is really an excellent camera.  I definitely don't consider myself an expert in DSLRs (I have only spent time shooting with Nikon D200, D70, and Canon Rebel XTi), but I've been very pleased with this one so far.
Image quality is extremely comparable to the Rebel XTi, except in the greens, where it appear to be superior.  Noise reduction is where the Sony sort of fails- low ISO noise is very acceptable, and definitely on a par with the Canon, possibly even better depending on the image.  Once you get up to ISO 1600 the Canon appears superior and the Sony is beginning to look fairly noisy- check out sample images on camera comparison sites to see if it's acceptable to you.  ISO 3200 results in very noisy images, but frankly the Canon can't hit 3200 anyway, so at least there's that!  In short, at low ISOs the Sony holds it's own or slightly exceeds it's competitors, at high ISOs it looks worse, but at the same time it's capable of hitting ISO 3200 whereas the competition isn't.  Kind of a toss up, I guess.
The kit lenses are about what you'd expect- a little soft, but overall not something the average user is likely to complain about.  Image distortion and chromatic aberation don't really appear to be a significant issue.  They're decent lenses, overall, definitely comparable to the kit lenses you'd get from any other maker.
Battery life so far is totally acceptable.  The Dynamic Range Optimization isn't as powerful as I'd like, but does work and is actually fairly cool.  The in-camera image stabilization is truly a great feature, and works well.  From what I've seen it maybe buys you two speeds' slower shooting that without it.
The thing that really sets this camera apart from the others I've played with is accesibility- it's truly easy to use.  I mostly got this camera for my wife, who's interested in SLR photography but generally unfamiliar with it.  She's had absolutely no trouble or intimidation in picking up and learning the camera quickly.
Overall a very good little camera that's an excellent choice for learning and having fun with, and is also capable of taking great pictures in experienced hands.