ID: B0019K3VPQ-R1WWE26LTNMBB5-A2XBYKGP936LUB
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VGN-AR890U-17-inch-Processor-Ultimate
ReviewerID: A2XBYKGP936LUB
ReviewerName: Rarkm "rarkm"
Date: January 16, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 2.0
Title: A disappointment
Content:
If this computer hadn't cost $1800 plus tax a year and a half ago, I'd give it three stars. However, overall, it was a disappointment, as was Sony customer service generally. I didn't have much of a choice at the time -- I had my notebook computer stolen while I was on the left coast and had to get another at Fry's. I bought based on features and Sony's reputation. Sony used to have a good reputation -- I have Sony products that are nearly 30 years old and still work great. Things change. I also wanted a large screen for graphics work, and the one on this lap top is very good, with good color rendition (not always true, there are huge differences between screens that aren't always obvious under the store fluorescent lighting). Then there's the crapware -- a major annoyance in all computers these days, but you get an extra heavy helping in this model.
Battery Drain -- The biggest initial irritation: a battery current leakage problem inherent in the motherboard design of this and similar models. The Li-ion battery will fully discharge in a shut down state in about 2 weeks or less. I don't know whether Sony has fixed this in future models; their immediate reaction was to confabulate about how 'all batteries do that', etc., and persuade new owners to live with it until the warranty expires. If you insist, they would send you a new battery (within the warranty period, of course), which would not fix the problem.
Customer Service and Upgrade - Most computer manufacturers have auto update websites that make it easy to connect and upgrade firmware and software -- so does Sony, but it was incredibly clunky and unreliable. They've improved their website marginally; the automatic software updater has been updated itself, but the website still can't recognize my operating system and model number automatically, I have to enter them in every time. Even so, the website has trouble determining which upgrades have already been installed, so I have to rely upon upgrade date info to determine what I haven't installed yet. There's no sort function, so I have to examine EVERY offered update one at a time. Horrible. It's tough to assess website service before you buy, but it's very important that the manufacturer know how to do it right. Sony gives it a lick and a promise.Despite marginal improvements, Sony US still doesn't get it. (This may be an attitude issue -- I have noticed similar problems with some (not all) Japanese manufacturers with US subsidiaries. Even if the product is technically very good, it gets 'abandoned' fairly quickly and parts, accessories and service updates become a problem.) 
Windows 7 Compatibility - Then there's the Windows 7 issue. My model came shipped with Vista, so naturally I expected that when Win 7 came out, I should have no problem doing an install on an $1800 machine (after all, it wasn't more than a year old at the time, and manufacturers plan for these sorts of things. Install went ok, but no sound. When I went looking for updated drivers, I found, to my horror, a terse little notice that Sony did not support Win 7 in this model (no explanation or technical description of the issues, naturally). I had to reinstall Vista -- a task that took the standard two days. Sony has recently reworked its notice to advise customers to run Microsoft's compatibility analyzer and not install Win 7 if the software adviser says not to. In other words, "it's not our fault for choosing crappy components and not writing driver upgrades, it's that naughty Microsoft". This dodge has earned Sony my permanent mark of disfavor. I will never buy any Sony product in the future if there is a competitive alternative.
All the issues described in other reviews are totally accurate. Sony used to be a great company. There are better choices now.