ID: B001D089XQ-R3SZ7OYYJ349E0-AJ8O2V8ZIAG1D
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-160-Internet-Media-Tablet
ReviewerID: AJ8O2V8ZIAG1D
ReviewerName: Kingpin
Date: January 31, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Two Thumbs Up
Content:
First let me say that I have been the proud owner of an Archos AV 700 for the last three years.  Loaded with an assortment of movies and TV shows it has been my constant companion on vacations, while waiting for my car to be serviced, and any time I have had the misfortune of accompanying my wife when she shops for clothing.  The screen resolution was never very good, but that was always quickly forgotten because of the enjoyment delivered.  Recently I was pondering an the upgrade to the 705 for its larger hard drive and better screen resolution.  However, these improvements did not seem to justify the expense so I decided to go all the way and purchased the Archos 7 320 GB, and I haven't been able to put the thing down.
Screen resolution is very good to excellent, and the device is capable of rendering most video formats, which is a huge improvement over my AV 700.  It will be a very short time however, before a failed playback prompts you to spend $20 on the cinema plug-in (Play movies in MPEG-2/VOB format with AC3).  The touchscreen took some getting used to until I realized it responded to a fine point rather than the pad of my finger.  A stylus from your phone, your fingernail, or the plastic end of a pen with point withdrawn all work well.  The image when Web browsing can be repositioned with a sweeping motion similar to the iPhone or iPod touch.  When viewing images one can point at a particular spot and zoom will occur at this position.  Unfortunately, unlike the Apple products there is no position sensor, so switching between upright and landscape images requires a vertical finger sweep instead of simply rotating the device.
WiFi response is good and makes most Web browsing respectable.  As flash flv files can be played, the majority of popular video streaming sites are viewed without problems.  The WiFi also unlocks what is perhaps the most powerful aspect of the "7", and that is its networking capability.  In hind sight I might have elected to buy the smaller hard drive model because by setting up media sharing in Windows Media Player 11 I have access to every video, picture, or MP3 on my network, without having to transfer them to the Archos.  Viewing response of a networked video is indistinguishable from one on the device itself.
Lastly, I purchased the TV Dock so I can play videos on a TV which is necessary for group viewing.  It was not very expensive but should have been included with the Archos and does not come with a remote control.  Like the days of my youth I need to get off my butt and walk across the room to skip ahead, pause or change the video.  I did not purchase the DVR station as my old AV 700 came with that ability as an included feature.