ID: B001I902HS-R26SXXH1X74Y95-A3KT85K6QPMGSV
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Panasonic-MC-CG885-OptiFlow-Lightweight-Canister
ReviewerID: A3KT85K6QPMGSV
ReviewerName: trp "serencymru"
Date: December 22, 2008
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 3.0
Title: Well designed, quality materials, but can't get into tight areas
Content:
We ordered the Panasonic MC-CG885 OptiFlow on Thursday and it arrived today, Monday, in time for the Christmas Cleanup.
This is what is in the box: the canister vacuum itself, two connecting metal wands, the Power Nozzle, the Bare Floor/Carpet cleaner.  Onboard the canister itself are two other attachments:  a small round "duster" and a crevice cleaner.
This is what I liked about it:
This vacuum cleaner is made of high quality materials and is extremely sturdy and fairly light-weight.  It looks elegant and well-designed.
It has rubber "bumpers" on the front so it won't nick the furniture.
It is easy and uncomplicated to put together and get it up and running.
It is very convenient to have the off/on/bare floor/carpet switch on the handle.
It is very convenient not to have to change attachments between bare floor and carpet.
It worked worked very well on both bare floor and carpet in open areas and got under the bed with ease.
It is easy to store in a small(ish) area.  The vacuum stands on edge and the hose attachment snaps into a "thingie" on the bottom.
It has a HEPA filter -- good for people with allergies -- you aren't throwing dust out the back end.
It is easy to change the vacuum bag -- there's a nifty lift out basket.
This is what I don't like about it:
The bare floor/carpet attachment is TOO BIG to get into tight spaces (between pieces of furniture, for example)and there are no attachments included which will get you into those tight spaces.
There are ONLY the TWO attachments.  The duster attachment is TOO SMALL to use efficiently in cleaning tight spaces on hard floors; and there is no attachment which will get you into those tight spaces on carpets. 
Another warning:  hair will get wound on the roller in the bare floor/carpet attachment which will burn out the motor if it isn't removed.  Read the manual for instructions.
This is a well-made piece of machinery and will do the job in open areas; but it is rather overpriced.  I bought a Hoover Wind Tunnel Plus in 2007 for $145 and think it is a better option.