ID: B0012Y6HC8-R3SG28VKZXIZTJ-A3JRZ4W140YICJ
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-XSI-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A3JRZ4W140YICJ
ReviewerName: M. Heltsley
Date: August 28, 2008
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: great camera, lots of perks, one problem
Content:
Love it.  I purchased this as soon as it came out.  That was my only mistake.  That cost me $180.  I can get it now for $180 less than I paid.  That hurts.  I have only had it for since February.  I should have known better than to buy it that soon.
With that being said, has it been worth the $180 extra?  Every cent.  I have taken better pictures with this than I have ever taken before.  That includes on old SLR film cameras, point and shoot film, APS and a half dozen other point and shoot digitals.  This camera beats its predecessors in every way, it beats the comparable Nikon, Sony, Olympus, and Pentax models in almost everyway and it has a great following on Ebay to boot, so finding extras is easy.  
The pictures are outstanding, especially for an entry level model.  The lens kit was nice, but I wish I had skipped it (and the 70-300 non IS I got as a bonus deal) and ponied up for a Sigma 18-200 OS lens and the Canon 50mm f/1.4 right off the bat.  But you live and learn, and those other lenses are nice enough, but the camera is too good for them.  The pictures don't look as good as they could with better glass.
I have taken 20000+ shots already, about 1/2 were crap.  But that was my fault not the camera, it can only do so much.  That means that the shutter, the memory card, the buttons, the lenscap, everything has been through 20000 pictures.  And it is no worse for wear.  I use it as much as I can, I take it everywhere as i have done with all my cameras before, it gets banged, dropped, sat on, etc.  It has never even hiccuped due to a problem I caused.
With that being said it has had problems of its own.  The kit lens had a hard time early on with focus, it is a known bug with a known workaround involving dismantling the camera waiting a bit and then reassembling it again.  Pretty easy to do, but since you don't know when it is going to happen or when it has happened it is pretty scary as any given picture (and then all others there after) could be "soft focused".  Once you take it apart and put it back together it fixes the issue and all is right with the world again, but none the less, this is a HUGE problem that almost made me take it back.  The problem only happened once though, and I no longer use the kit lens so I am not as worried about it.  Plus I check my shots for focus after the fact anyhow, so now I know to look for a pattern of soft focus.  If found I know to fix it ASAP.  I have not had to use this bandaid since the first time, but I have it in my bag of tricks.  I debated and gave it 5 stars despite this because I believe this will be fixed in firmware soon, and it can be worked around thus not affecting the vast majority of users.  If that were fixed, once and for all, this would be one heck of a great camera.
Hell it is one great camera, it is amazing and outstanding and impresses me, and most everyone who sees my photos, each time I use it.  I plan to put it to good use for many years to come.  Which by then it will have lost all its value and i will upset that at one point I paid $850 more than i could get it for.  Until then though I highly recommend this camera to anyone and everyone, unless you are rich enough to afford the upcoming 50d which frankly puts this in its place.