ID: B001EU9UTM-R15QGVADXYEXDU-A3L3Z2IV422526
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Mr-Coffee-ECMP50-Espresso-Cappuccino
ReviewerID: A3L3Z2IV422526
ReviewerName: P. Thomas "Cawfee Junkee"
Date: December 2, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: True Review for Mr. Coffee ECMP50: Great Machine, But...
Content:
I've always been a huge espresso fanatic and would usually start out my days with a double shot of espresso. My obsession started when I worked as a barista at an Italian restaurant. I wanted to produce the same quality espresso at home so being on a budget, I purchased the EMCP10 in 2005. The machine was great and would produce a great cup of espresso every time with just the right amount of crema. The pump died out last week and I went to Target to purchase the ECMP50. 
I took my new machine home ready to feed my caffeine addiction (at this point I've been deprived of espresso for about a week). I set the machine up and filled the water tank to the "max" mark. So far, so good. I turned the machine on to let it warm up so that I could run some water through it and get it nice and clean. I step out of the room for no more than 2 minutes and when I return my counter is flooded with water. I look at my machine and the water tank is empty!! "Ok.." I think to myself. "Maybe I put the tank on the wrong way?". I fiddle around for another 20 minutes and realize that water is leaking out of the bottom of the machine (where the power cord feeds into the machine) and might cause a serious problem down the road (Morning Headline: Man found electricuted hunched over his coffee maker). Still wearing my jacket I throw the machine back into the box and head back to Target. The customer service lady said that was the third machine that was returned for the same problem this month (I noticed alot of the negative complaints were also individuals who had the leaking problem AND purchased the machine from Target. Perhaps a bad batch?). I give it another shot, crossing my fingers and hoping that the machine I got was just a bad apple and I do an exchange as opposed to a refund.
I get home and open up the box. Right away I could tell this wasn't the original packaging. There were also watermarks in the water tank as well as a few espresso grinds here and there. Now i'm thinking that this machine was probably one of the returns that Target recieved or it was a refurbished model. Either way, I decide to give this bad boy another spin. I do the same setup, fill up the tank, clean the machine and I'm ready to brew my first cup. I used illy coffee (a bit pricey but worth it), used my trusty tamper and set the machine up to brew. I cross my fingers and low and behold, rich crema! I time the pull and it took about 20 seconds... perfect. This $70 machine ($69.99 on sale at Target) produced a cup of espresso comparable to something you would get from a $3,000 machine (without all the bells and whistles of course).
The machine itself looks sleak and elegant. Controls are easy to use. When your actually handling the machine it seems a bit cheap because of all the plastic components. Overall, if you get a machine that doesn't leak you'll be happy with the results!