ID: B0012QAXNA-R1Z2JKY7NRJLXJ-A1ALM7N6OTZ3I1
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-10-2MP-Digital-Camera-Reduction
ReviewerID: A1ALM7N6OTZ3I1
ReviewerName: Donna J. Sabol "jsabol21"
Date: August 19, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great camera to learn and grow
Content:
It's a great camera. I'm a good 35mm photographer learner D SLR's for the first time and this camera has a lot of great settings to help out in the beginning of the process or for someone who can zoom in and ut but basically wants high quality family snapshots. 
I have a few problems with the controls, as I am yet unable (after a few weeks) to operate the F-Stop/Aperture setting which I can do easily on other brands. But I'm sure that as soon as I actually finish reading th huge manual I'll be able to do it. For now, the dials, though I looked them up are confusing, esp. since some of the things you have to do through menu, not dials. 
No battery pack-- something I thought would be a CON is great. Lithium AA lasted for over 1800 pics with Shake Reduction on always, constant review, and about 1/4 built-in flash use. (I don't have the additional battery grip). It will take any AA including rechargeables (though they claim they aren't recommended for best function I haven't had a problem and regular throw aways).
I bought this camera because it is in a lower price range for its features-- most other lines only offer shake reduction built into the body of the camera in the next price range along with the huge amount of preset picture modes and options for creativity (the advanced modes). 
I haven't found the dials as easy to use as friends' Canon's (I can pick them up and change the settings without knowing their cameras)but I like this camera better, and the same product is available for a cheaper price. It also fits my set of PENTAX 35mm lenses which is a no brainer and a unique quality.  
I say this is a better camera than its similarly priced competitors by far, esp. with the functions. But it can be a bit tricky to use.