ID: B0012QAXNA-R2ALC48ET1HC7I-A12XZ47J1XXA4U
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-10-2MP-Digital-Camera-Reduction
ReviewerID: A12XZ47J1XXA4U
ReviewerName: Siva
Date: July 23, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good, but not as good
Content:
Firstly, I wanted to give it 3.5 stars, not 4.
I have mentioned below the main camera features, it's rating and a bgjustification. These are the most important points to be considered with respect to the other cameras in competition (Canon XSi and Nikon D60).
1.Weather proof body(4/5):Excellent feature for the price. But, it is of no use without a weather-ressistant lens. But Pentax has recently (May 2009) released 2 weather ressistant lenses (18-55 and 50-200mm) under $250 each. These lenses were not available when I purchased the camera. 
2. Image stabilization (4/5): The Pentax shifts it's sensor to compensate for the shake, unlike Canon and Nikon (they shift the lens elements). Since the shake reduction is in the body, any kind of lens (cheap ones, old ones, etc.) can be attached to the camera body and IS can be acheived. Hence, lenses are cheaper for the Pentax. Whereas in Canon and Nikon, the IS (or VR=Vibration Reduction as Nikon calls it)lenses are costly. But the quality of IS is a little better in Canon (no idea about Nikon).
3. Picture quality (4/5): The picture quality is just like any other camera. The contrast is on the higher end and I like it that way. It makes the pictures ready for printing. I went out with my friend who had a Canon XSi. My pictures looked far better than his when we compared them. The Canon pictures looked dull because they are more natural and the contrast is well balanced. The Canon pictures are a bit (about 10%) sharper than the Pentax. 
Overall, no regrets with the picture quality. It is almost "awesome"!
4. Lens compatibility (5/5): If you are planning to use a varitey of lenses, then you are in luck! The K200D is compatible with every single Pentax lens produced till date (some older lenses require an additional mount) Also, the lenses are cheaper compared to Canon and Nikon. There are also third party manufacturers like Sigma and Tamron.
5. Other features: There is no need to review the other features like RAW, LCD, Menu, Modes, etc. since they are pretty much the same in all the cameras. 
Although, please note that this camera does not come with "live view", i.e., the LCD does not show the image while you try to capture it. You need to use the viewfinder to see what you are capturing. You may review your picture in the LCD only after capturing it.
It feels like a pro camera, but with the feel comes the weight. It also has a small LCD display on the top of the body which are usually present in pro and semi-pro cams. But this LCD cannot be used in situations with low lights since the LCD is not back-lit.
CONCLUSION: I would recommend this camera if first 4 features are very important for you(Weather resistant, lens compatibility, cheap lenses and ready to print pics). The bad part is that it lacks "live view" and video capture. I can live without these. Overall, I am extremely happy with the output (pictures). Great camera!