ID: B001P05NJ2-R1T95CISXB3TBA-A2MG95DI29NJTJ
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MC026LL-15-4-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2MG95DI29NJTJ
ReviewerName: Seth Eliot
Date: November 16, 2008
Helpful: 10 of 16
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good choice for non-techie user.  Increased usability however comes at a price.
Content:
This review is for the MB470LL/A (2.4GHZ CPU, 2GB Memory, 250GB Hard Drive) MacBook Pro released in late 2008.   I bought this machine for my wife who had been using Windows machines for years, but never really "got into" them.  I thought that Mac, known for its superior usability and user interface design might be a better choice for her.  The rest of this review is in her words.
Let me begin by saying the following:  I am a non techie, first time laptop owner.  I have not owned any previous Macs, and all my previous experience is from a Windows PC.  What I wanted from a computer was a place to keep all my photos, music, stories (I enjoy writing), etc; nothing extreme, just the everyday stuff that most people probably use their computer for.  Why I wanted a laptop was because I have a little girl (9 months currently) and I wanted to be able to write from anywhere while still being able to keep an eye on her.  So please take everything I write with this info in mind. 
I had heard that Mac software was fairly intuitive, and being the above said non technical person, that was a big draw for me.  Macs come with iLife, which is the bundle of programs including iTunes, iPhoto, iChat, iMovie, etc. - basically all your everyday home life programs.  The only thing that the Mac did not have included that I needed was a word processing program.  To get that, I decided to go with the Microsoft office for Mac, which obviously was purchased separately. 
So here are my thoughts on this computer based on having lived with it for a little less than a month... 
The computer itself is gorgeous.  I had never really looked at laptops before, but since getting this computer, I have been comparing it to my friends' non-Mac laptops, and I am blown away by the difference in looks.  The Mac is sleeker, better designed, the trackpad is larger.  You have a camera already installed in the Mac.  For pure aesthetic pleasure, it is Mac all the way. 
The screen is indeed glossy.  So far, this has not bothered me, with the caveat that as of this moment, I have not taken it outside of the home, so I've been able to control the light that hits it.  Since I bought this laptop to use inside of a home, this screen works for me, but I would highly recommend that anyone who will be using this screen in multiple lighting situations go to a Mac Store and check out the screen first hand.  It could definitely be a deal breaker for some people. 
I love the keyboard.  For my background, I am someone who types over 100 words a minute, and has spent several years in a clerical capacity where keyboards and I were very well acquainted.  Since my biggest worry about getting a laptop was if I would like the keyboard or not, the fact that I am so happy speaks volumes. 
I have found that using the Mac software has been almost as good as advertised.  I have been able to get it running with very few problems, and the couple times I have been stuck, Apple has given a lot of help options.  There is a help window where you can type a question and it will give you several options to click.  Also, on the apple site there are tons of info videos and podcasts that you can watch or read to get answers to your questions.  I have yet to have a problem where one of these two options did not get me the answer to solve it. 
The trackpad is the big breakthrough for this new Mac.  I won't go into detail about how to use it, you can find that elsewhere.  All I will say in regards to this is that I've found it to be fairly easy to get used to these features, and now that I'm used to it, I can't imagine not using it. 
The speakers sound wonderful; I often play my music just from my Mac.  Obviously, I'm not trying to say these replace your home sound system, but you can comfortably play a movie without wincing about the sound quality. 
Not all is perfect though.  There are a few things you should be aware of, especially if this is your first Mac purchase. 
First, you have the `option' of purchasing a warranty.  However, considering the Mac is a closed system with not a lot of fix options outside of Apple, it really isn't an option; it's something you need to get unless you are a gambler.  So that is an automatic almost $400 more on top of the MacBook price. 
Speaking of MacBook prices, I probably don't have to tell you that you pay a premium for Macs.  You can get a PC Laptop with just as good (or perhaps a slight bit better) specs for about half the price., such as this example: [HP Pavilion DV7-1150US 17-Inch Laptop (2.0 GHz Intel Core 2 Duo T5800 Processor, 4 GB RAM, 250 GB Hard Drive, DVD Drive, Vista Premium)]
Another problem is if you (like I) have family and friends that have mostly PC's, it is hard to get some cross platforming things going.  For example, it has been really difficult to find a video chat program that works on both sides.  We have ultimately decided we would run Windows for Mac on this computer to solve these type of problems.  I will admit that it is nice to have this option, but once again, that is yet another start up expense you have to consider. 
Apple does have a tendency to nickel and dime you.  A lot of small things you would assume would be included often have to be purchased separately, and the only one who sells these things are... Apple.   
Also I've my machine may have a design defect.  I noticed that if I use the two prong charger (it comes with both 2 and 3 prong) I sometimes feel a slight electrical "vibration".  This issue has been found by others, details are on the Apple discussion board at http://discussions.apple.com/thread.jspa?messageID=8356694 (if amazon removes the previous link from this review, simply put "New Macbook Pro 2.53GHz (Late 2008) Vibration Palm Rest" into google to find it).
To sum it up, as of right now, I really love my Mac.  I'm incredibly happy with the way it works, and how it is so easy to use for the things I use it for.  I still get giddy every time I see it, and I love talking about it.  I will probably update this review in about a year to let you know how it's going and if I still feel this way, but right now, I can say in all honesty, if you are comfortable spending the money for it, go for the MacBook Pro.