ID: B001P05NKG-R388B5E7T4YS5P-A2V5TX3SMJS1XP
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB990LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2V5TX3SMJS1XP
ReviewerName: M
Date: December 17, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Just about perfect
Content:
I'm typing this review on this bad boy. And bad boy it is. See my Reviews on Windows 7, OS X and the Mac Pro for more info about Mac OS X. This replaced my Black MacBook after a year.
First off: Speed
It's fast -- not as fast as a desktop or 15" but plenty fast for day to day tasks. Boot time is about 1 minute. with full usability in about 1 and a half minutes. iTunes can rip a full length CD is less than the time it takes to play 2 songs from it. (It tops out around 22x the speed of play.)
Second: Looks
Super sleek. I've had this computer for about 3 months and still love the look of the thing. It's no MacBook Air, but it's very nice. The LED backlit screen is gorgeous and very easy on the eyes. In all but the brightest daylight is it hard to read. The backlit keyboard is not only cool but quite functional if you're not a touch typist. Edge to Edge glass looks delicate but probably isn't. Then again I have yet to drop the 'Book.
Third: Build Quality
Superb. There's zero flex, the thing feels like a solid piece of steel because it is. The only caveat is the edge: some edges are a bit sharper than others, so people with delicate hands might complain about the edge of the 'Book in front of the track pad. The 802.11n wireless and bluetooth is solid -- with little to no reception problems due to its aluminum case.
Fourth: Other Features
FireWire 800? Check. SD card slot? Check. Magsafe power adapter? Rocks. I've tripped over the power cable and the magsafe saved me from doing any damage to the power supply or computer. Camera: a little too good! Mic? Great I sound clear and like I'm speaking into a headset mic on Ventrilo.
This is about the 10th computer I've owned, and by far the best. The only thing I'd rather have would be a MacPro, but that can't be taken to a cafe.
OS X 10.6:
Snow Leopard ishands down the best consumer OS on the market. Windows 7 pales in comparison. 
Now in iChat you can remotely control another mac and collaborate on using it! This feature alone is worth a upgrade if you already have a mac.
CONS:
Edge may be sharp to you. A bit more than a comparably equipped PC.