ID: B001P05NKG-R3VV4D98B2XE8E-A3SKMWPVR5CO1H
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB990LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A3SKMWPVR5CO1H
ReviewerName: Computerdude1032
Date: July 24, 2009
Helpful: 9 of 14
Rating: 5.0
Title: The best, most affordable laptop ever created!
Content:
As an avid PC users for many years, I finally decided to give the MacBook a try when Apple finally upped their specs and lowered their prices on this lower end model.  It may still appear that the MacBook is four to five hundred dollars more expensive that comparably equipped PC's, but this isn't necessarily true because the MacBook has the much faster (and much more expensive) DDR3 RAM which is hard to find in a PC.  It also has a processor with a larger cache, and a better video card.  If you're a student you can even get a hundred dollar discount and a free iPod touch from the Apple store, which would decrease the price difference from a PC to about one hundred bucks, definitely a premium worth paying.  I can actually see an argument to be made that the MacBook is finally more affordable than a PC (especially if you're going to use the included iLife software such as GarageBand or iMovie which would cost you money to buy on a PC).
Now that the price dispute is debunked, I will talk about the hardware.  The hardware on the MacBook Pro is EASILY the BEST hardware I've ever seen on any laptop, ever.  In fact, I've never heard ANYBODY argue against that fact.  The touchpad is 2-3x bigger than ones you'll find on PC's, and supports multitouch gestures much like you're already used to if you use an iPhone or iPod touch.  The keyboard is quiet and comfortable, and even lights up at night so you can see what you're typing.  The laptop itself is thinner and more quiet than any comparably equipped PC on the market (not to mention better looking).  The monitor has great picture quality, not noticeably different than any high end PC's, but still good.  My only complaint about the hardware is the heat.  I was told by other Mac users that the MacBook didn't get as hot as PC Laptops, but in my experience it gets just as hot, if not hotter.  I guess with such a powerful computer it's to be expected, but it's still somewhat annoying (you can't keep the LAPTOP on your lap for very long... kinda defeats the name, huh?)
As for the Mac OS itself, I can sum it up by saying it's good, but not great.  It's not a huge improvement over Vista- in fact other than the missing start menu, everything is fairly closely the same.  There are less advanced options, and the OS is sort of "dumbed down," but other than that it's great.  Less advanced users will probably find it easier to use.  More advanced users will need some time to get used to it, but will eventually come to accept and embrace the simplicity of the OS.  The biggest advantage of Leopard over Vista is speed.  It turns on in less than 30 seconds, and wakes from sleep in less than 2 seconds.  My PC Laptop takes around 3 minutes to boot up, and around 1 minute to wake from sleep, and that doesn't look to be getting any faster in Windows 7.  Additionally, installed applications open fast and do not lag.  You'll LOVE the speed boost you get on the Mac!!!!! After being a PC addict for so long I cannot even use a PC anymore for anything, not even web browsing.  Better yet is that Snow Leopard (the OS upgrade coming this September which you can get for thirty dollars, or for ten dollars if you've bought a Mac since June 8th, 2009) claims to increase speeds 2-3x.  I'm excited to see how much faster things get because everything is pretty much already instant.
I could go on and on about all the little things that make the MacBook so great, but I can say without doubt that anything Apple says on their website is actually true (except their bashing of PC's, and their claims that Mac's can't get viruses, both of which are unfounded claims).  The MacBook hardware is great, and the Mac OS is quite good.  I wouldn't go as far as to hate on PC's and Vista like many Mac fans do, but I will say that I will be sticking with Apple products for the foreseeable future.  I HIGHLY recommend this product, even if you're initially turned off by the seemingly higher price.