ID: B0012Y88QQ-R2O6O41LTH6WK6-AFX6SFJZN3YQW
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: AFX6SFJZN3YQW
ReviewerName: Eric Nicodemus
Date: March 12, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Canon Rebel XSI review, good for amateur photographers
Content:
Great camera for amateur photographers just starting out. I've always had a digital point-n-shoot for the longest time, but a new cannon point-n-shoot camera and a trip to Niagara Falls changed my mind. I was so impressed by cannon quality of camera and image. I became interested in doing semi-professional photography. So I looked into DSLR's. 
This camera is a great camera. If you're just getting serious about photography like I am then I would highly recommend this camera. All the bad reviews I read here on Amazon made it seem like the camera had problems. But that's just not true, outside of defected product, the camera is good, it's the lenses you have to be careful about. The camera is comfortable to hold, not that heavy, and a heck of a lot better than the point-n-shoot you had before. It might take a while to get used to where all the setting buttons are, and moving between them quick enough. A lot of things are overwhelming with this camera when you never owned a DSLR or taken any photography classes. Such as where the buttons are, learning where all the features are, and the hardest is learning about aperture, shutter speed, and exposure. But don't let that deter you, if you take the time to learn then you'll be fine.
Price was great here on Amazon. It was the lowest price BY FAR that i saw while researching for NEW equipment.
For the lens it came with, the 18-55mm IS, it's a pretty good lens. When looking through all the reviews on here you'll see a lot of Auto Focusing problems. The thing is, if the lens can't auto focus, just switch to manual focus. You may ask though, "how often would I have to do that?". The answer, not very much. The only times my camera had auto focusing problems is with night shoots without a flash, and pointing it at the open sky. Sometimes you will get some shoots (depending on the scene and composure) that the camera wants to focus on something closer than your subject. Such as shooting through tall weeds or grass. Probably just want to switch to MF in that scenario like I do. I mean after all that's one of the primary reasons I got a DSLR, to have control of the focus. It's a good lens.
Overall, great camera, great price, great quality. I'm happy I bought it.