ID: B0013FLU96-R1V6IF4HQB2D28-A1MB5HUA3WYEJC
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB133LL-15-4-inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: A1MB5HUA3WYEJC
ReviewerName: Mike "Movie Buff"
Date: October 9, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: The best laptop I have ever had for work
Content:
I've gone through several laptops, my most recent was an Alienware 51m which only lasted 1 1/2 years. While playing a game, the video card died, right after my warranty expired. And lucky for me, the laptops parts are no longer made so it sits as a coaster on my coffee table. Recently I've used a Apple iBook until my principal was able to buy a few MacBook Pros. I quickly traded in my iBook for this thing of beauty. I never looked back!
I'm amazed at how fast this computer loads and works. The OS called Leopard is very stable and easy to use. I've found that Macs are very user friendly. The screen is very bright (you can adjust this) and a nice addition is the fact that the keypad area is lit. The speakers on the side seem very powerful for a laptop and the superdrive being in the front instead on the right side is a nice touch. The 15 inch screen is perfect.  I've seen iLife '08 take a beating by reviewers and by keynote speakers when I go to professional development. iMovie on this laptop (part of iLife '08) is a little more confusing than the previous version. I love my iTunes though. The wireless card sometimes acts a little quirky at my job trying to hook on to the network but I am chalking this up as our network issues (we got quite a few issues with it) and I dont blame this laptop. When I go home, it does a great job detecting wireless networks.
If you need a laptop strictly for work, this is a great laptop. The only minus, is that it gets very hot sometimes. Sometimes it gets extremely hot when charging. Ive notified Apple concerning this and they said it's normal however, if you feel the heat you will quickly remove your hand and say, "Ouch!" I cant see that as normal but so far so good. For now on, if I need a laptop, I get an Apple. I still love m PC desktop that I built myself though!