ID: B001IZ80C6-R2M1SPO15TDZN6-ADD7U6W7FWDJZ
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-Coffee-Demand-Maker-COD-4000BWSA
ReviewerID: ADD7U6W7FWDJZ
ReviewerName: Jeff Wright
Date: March 23, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 7
Rating: 1.0
Title: bad, bad, bad design
Content:
Wow. I have used a variety of coffee makers over the years. I like the design and *intended* function, but it fails on so many levels.
A quick look and you can see where to pour the water. However, if you don't pour fast enough, the spout doesn't enable enough surface tension and water flows down the side of the bucket. The spout and reservoir opening are roughly the same size.
Meanwhile, you must keep an eye on where you're pouring into the top, as well as the fill-level guide on the side of the unit. Water isn't supposed to get into the area with the heating element, so the other option is the counter. Having to keep track of everything while still half-asleep is cruel and unusual. It may have a programmable bit, but I like my coffee fresh, not sitting out overnight waiting.
What happened to putting level indication inside the bucket one is supposed to use to fill the reservoir? This would be very handy. This is also kind of a 'duh' considering that the capacity of this bucket is far greater than that of the reservoir and it states that in the manual.
The condensation that forms from brewing will also flow out the back, even though there seems to be some sort of proto-gutter in place to divert the flow. I think it doesn't know it's supposed to do this.
And great coffee with the proper balance of clean, fresh water makes great coffee. Coffee makers do little more than throw hot water over a pile of grounds and store the brewed goodness. Stop kidding yourselves.
Can't decide if Cuisinart was trying to save money by hiring industrial designers fresh out of school or if they are a cult of sadists who enjoy torturing people in the early morning. I returned it and got a completely different manufacturer.