ID: B0017PLEVQ-R2OW1MLJEPG4VY-A1VG3NH42LG3JE
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-Aquarius-Canister-Vacuum-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1VG3NH42LG3JE
ReviewerName: M. Converse
Date: November 17, 2007
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: Love my Miele!!!!!!!
Content:
I am thrilled with the Miele system. The bags caught most, if not all (hey I don't have a microscope) of my dust, dust mites and their and my blech. I live in Oregon, land of 24/7 365 moisture. So dust mites love it here. And I happen to live in a valley... grass grass pollen pollen. I also have a cat that loves to quite literally roll around in the dirt. After testing a Miele Aquarius on my entire carpeted apartment, it was a no brainer to get a Miele. The first night I had my loaner from a friend I thoroughly cleaned my bedroom and that night I slept better. In the morning instead of going through a dozen or more tissues I just needed one. I also did not have to blow my nose in the middle of the night. I already have an amazing non-toxic mattress that the mites can't live in so I knew the problem was carpet, dust and moisture related. I ended up with the Gemini Miele as I don't need the Automatic (extra function) of the Aquarius. I did want the backlit knob indicator which is why I went with the Gemini over the Callisto. I purchased through Witbecks and they have been amazing in service and I would definitely buy from them again. And if the price makes you balk... read The Miele company's environmental statement. They make some appliances too. Think about it, 15-20 years for a vacuum... how many pieces of junk vacuums can you go through in that time? I don't know of anyone yet that does not love their Miele!
ps People, if you have allergies... look at your laundry detergent too.... I am simply flabbergasted how many people say they have allergies and use scented detergent, fabric softener, and dryer sheets!!!!!! That synthetic fragrance is definitely exacerbating any allergies you may have. That includes any 'plug-ins' or the like. Those products are actually quite toxic over time, they damage your olfactory senses (nose) and pollute the air, not freshen it.