ID: B001P05NKG-REJUTCISKR2WQ-A3S27TISNLCNVG
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB990LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A3S27TISNLCNVG
ReviewerName: Stephen E. Turner
Date: January 17, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great computer....not for everyone
Content:
To me, carrying around a laptop is like carrying around a file cabinet, encyclopedia, music library, entertainment center, and personal secretary. Being a college student/small business owner I need to be able to have this flexibility. I've owned about 4 laptops which have all helped to feed my workaholic lifestyle. I rely on my laptop so much that I don't have an entertainment center, my cd's are boxed up, my encyclopedias are never used, my file cabinet rarely gets used, and I don't have a personal secretary. 
Typically I go and buy a cheap/mid range computer which usually works just fine for me, but they usually wear out very quickly. So this time around I decided to buy a higher quality computer because I wanted more battery life and something that might last a little longer while I'm on the go. I've had several friends who have been very pleased with their macbooks and macs because of the organization/computing power. So I decided to finally jump the gap and buy a macbook. 
I'm pleased... The computer is great, battery life is good and the operating system makes perfect sense for someone who needs organization help. To me it's as if I'm not even using a computer at all, it's more of just a real world experience. The experience is extremely personal and I feel like I'm in control all the time whereas sometimes it seemed like the PC was controlling me. Yes, you might say that the computer is simple and boring, and that would be true if you were expecting the computer to alleviate boredom. However, if you use your computer like I do, then you will be pleased that the computer seems to only do what you want it to do and nothing more.
So if you use your computer as a tool to simplify and organize your life, buy the macbook. However, if you are a computer nerd who loves gaming and loves computers because they are computers, then a PC would probably be the way to go.