ID: B0013FLTNS-RP64H8KQWXZDU-A3370A02DIHUHV
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB134LL-15-4-inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: A3370A02DIHUHV
ReviewerName: K. Ma
Date: May 27, 2008
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Matted or Glossy 15.4 Macbook Pro or XPS M1530
Content:
I know I am not the first person to go over the two main issues, get the XPS at a huge discount and of course glossy or matted.  I wanted to share my experience with everyone and hopefully save you some time or even hassle.
First off I specced a Dell XPS M1530 and saw that with some coupons I could get a much better PC at almost half the price.  Since I am not an advid Mac User this seemed like a better deal. I figured why pay more for OS X when Vista suits me just fine.  So I press the send button and placed my order.  Not being able to sleep at night I decided to see/feel the XPS at my local Bestbuy store.  First off the exterior of the Dell is quite nice and has a sturdy feel to it.  But when I opened the unit, the keboard wrist area looked kind of cheap.  I then booted it up and tried some videos / movies / games.  The one thing you will notice right away i that the speakers are AWFUL.  I was not expecting Bose like sound, but the sound reminded me of an old 386SX computer I use to have where all you needed was beeps and dings.  I went home cancelled my order with Dell.
I knew I wanted th Apple MacBook Pro but then glossy or Matted.  After reading tons of reviews and opinions I decided the only way is to go down there.  I went to Apple and started looking at the screen side by side with pictures/movies/games.  Hands down in every aspect Glossy was much sharper clearer and color more vibrant.  I chose Glossy.
Then of course do I get the 2.4 or 2.5 Mhz.  While I don't doubt that for some the $500.00 upgrade is needed, for most of us it is not.  By the time most programs (games) require 512VRAM the notebook would probably be outdated processor wise.  Added with the fact that Intel charges Apple about $75 for the upgraded chip it seems odd that Apple could slap us with $500.00.
At the end I bough my MacBook Pro 2.4Mhz Glossy and LOVE IT.  I also took the apple salesman advice, "you could always buy an external matted screen if you need to."  External matted screens are generally less expensive then their glossy counterparts.  There you go best of both worlds.
I hope I have helped some of you but at the end of the day single best advice is to go and see for yourself.  That's what I did!