ID: B001SAS5NU-R3N1UH37NKDALJ-AMILGSGCYH013
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Factory-Reconditioned-Dyson-12446-02-DC21-Canister
ReviewerID: AMILGSGCYH013
ReviewerName: W. Ferguson "amazon faithful"
Date: July 17, 2009
Helpful: 18 of 23
Rating: 1.0
Title: DON'T BUY A DYSON
Content:
I purchased this vacuum the first week of March.  After snapping the pieces together, I turned the unit on.  The brush in the head spun for 15 seconds and stopped.  I pressed the button on the head and the brush started spinning again... for 15 seconds.  I was not certain if I was doing something wrong or if the vacuum simply did not work, so I called Dyson.  The rep asked me a few questions and pronounced that the head was defective and that Dyson would ship me a replacement head.  This sounded responsive so I agreed to this.  Almost a month later the replacement head arrived.  I snapped the new head on and when I started the vacuum the replacement head spun normally ... for 15 seconds.  I then called Dyson back again.  This time they said that I should take the vacuum to one of their local certified repair centers to be checked out.  Again this sounded responsive so I agreed to do this.  In retrospect this was a big mistake.  I now realize that I should have immediately returned the vacuum to Amazon.com.  Two weeks later the repair center said that the problem was a faulty electrical tube and that they had order the part from Dyson.  That was three months ago.  Since then the repair center has told me that Dyson promises to ship the replacement part next week ... nine times.  Dyson themselves admit that they have never shipped the ordered part and has offered up numerous "the dog ate my homework" excuses such as a computer problem caused the part order to be lost, one shipping center thought the other shipping center would ship it, ect., ect., ect.  It's now the end of July and the only thing I have to show for my money is a repair ticket and a great deal of my time wasted.
Dyson runs lots of ads portraying their company to be innovative and personable.  Reality could not be further from the truth.  Don't buy a Dyson!