ID: B0017YUX5A-R3LQ209WZWK3UK-A1GZ7Q7TPWNOC6
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3670-WindTunnel-Anniversary-Canister
ReviewerID: A1GZ7Q7TPWNOC6
ReviewerName: N. Denning
Date: April 3, 2009
Helpful: 21 of 21
Rating: 5.0
Title: Works great! I'm very impressed
Content:
I was a fan of Hoover vacuums to begin with, but this one is the best I've ever used.  I recently had all of my carpet replaced with Pergo laminate, and I am very concerned about keeping it clean without damaging it with the brush roll on a vacuum. I also have two cats, one of which is very long-haired.
The power on this vacuum is great. At full power, I don't even have to get near something for it to pick it up. The first day I got the vacuum, I picked a room with the least furniture in it and vacuumed it. I then went behind it with a Swiffer sweeper and checked the cloth. The cloth was almost completely clean, and the room had been very dirty and sandy from cat litter prior to that. 
It is very easy to use. The video on the product page for this vacuum shows it well. Changing to one of the attachments is very easy, as is extending the handle/wand. For me, it is not simply a vacuum, but it is now my duster as well. There is no reason for me to ever use a duster that can re-spread the dust around again.
Also, I saw someone complain about the power head being too powerful and damaging a rug or coming off the floor. I did find that vacuuming a throw-rug on the floor at full power was not useful. However, turning the power down to the lowest setting and turning the brush roll on got all my rugs cleaner than my previous upright Hoover did.
I read a couple of reviews before buying this that talked about a few of the pieces being made of plastic, which concerned them. If I inspect the vacuum, I realized it has some (very thick) plastic parts. However, none of it seems the least bit flimsy or easily breakable to me. 
I've only had this for a couple of weeks, but I will update this review if anything changes or I notice anything else.