ID: B001FA1O0E-R3M2B4NPILN941-A1ZYS1A8YDZUBH
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-touch-Generation-Previous-Model
ReviewerID: A1ZYS1A8YDZUBH
ReviewerName: J. Wm Seabrooke CPA "Tax Man"
Date: January 30, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Apple iPod Touch 16G (2nd Gen) Lives Up To It's Reputation!
Content:
Note:  The technical aspects of this product have already been well presented in previous reviews on this site. My review comments are directed towards the functional aspects of this outstanding product. 
This item was purchased to replace a Dell Axim PDA.  We already own an iPhone (1st Gen) which allows us to retrieve e-mails when there is not a "hot spot" nearby.  The required functions included e-mail, Calendar, contacts, Internet connectivity and, of course music.  It has already exceeded all of my expectations for all of the essential functions, plus more (stocks, weather, maps, and my new favorite Podcasts) The video for Podcasts is impressive, to say the least. It's lightweight and durable easily fitting in to your pocket, purse, laptop bag, or wherever.  
The heart of the product's system functionality is iTunes.  I did have problems with my PC not recognizing my optical drives after the installation but this appears to be related to a Music Match-iTunes conflict. I went to the support section at the Apple website and located the procedures to go in to the Registry to correct the problem.  (http://support.apple.com/kb/TS2372)  I did not have problems with my other desktop PC as I had never launched Music Match on this system.  I did not experience a similar problem with Roxio, Cyberlink or Sonic applications.
I would recommend going to the Apple website and reviewing the "User Guide" and tutorials before taking the product out of the box or even better, after you have placed your order with Amazon and are waiting for it to arrive.  There are also some helpful videos available.
My only downside comment is for the requirement for a post purchase cost for a protective case (it is essential), an Apple docking station for my desk, and a cigarette light adapter for that on-the-road time. Others may consider these to be optional. The local Apple store nailed me for $112.00 for those items.  I'm sure that they may be obtained cheaper elsewhere.  I did read in one or two customer comments that some of the knock offs or cheaper versions of car adapters can wipe out your iTouch which caused me to go ahead and spend the big bucks to further enrich Steve Jobs. 
Bottom Line - an outstanding product with the Apple world class quality, functionality, and reliability!