ID: B001E532ZA-R1L4JEU7FIF8ZA-AC2EGRJTJYVBA
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Bosch-TAS4511UC-Tassimo-Single-Serve-Coffee
ReviewerID: AC2EGRJTJYVBA
ReviewerName: A. Stagg
Date: December 28, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent Brewing Machine!  I Like The Espresso!!
Content:
My review is based primarily on my experience with the less-expensive model, but these comments apply to both units.  The Bosch Tassimo is an excellent single-serve brewing machine. I've been using the Keurig system (which I love) for several years, but wanted a machine at the office which could make a decent cup of espresso. This machine does not disappoint.
Overall, it's quieter than the Keurig and more energy efficient. It only heats the water when you are ready to make the coffee. However, it is very fast, so don't worry about speed.
It makes a good cup of espresso. Though not as good as freshly ground beans from our super-automatic at home, the machine makes a better cup than I've had at many coffee shops.
The only difference I can tell between the $99 version and the $139 version is the inclusion of a water filter on the more expensive model and a more attractive finish. Both produce a fine cup of coffee and are sturdy, well-built machines. Because the cheaper model does NOT have a water filter, it holds slightly more water. I plan to use bottled water in my machine, so it makes little difference to me. The Bosch also has a smaller footprint than the Keurig machine.
It produces excellent coffee that is tailored to the type of coffee you are making. The one downside to the system is that there is not the VARIETY of coffee available for it that you can find for the Keurig. But, I think the taste of the coffee is superior, and you can't make an espresso with a Keurig. The Starbuck's blends produced for the coffee maker are excellent and taste fresh. I particularly recommend Starbucks Africa Kitamu, T-Discs for Tassimo System, 6.1-Ounce Packages (Pack of 2) for those who like a very strong and bold-flavored coffee. The Starbucks House Blend, Medium, T-Discs for Tassimo System, 6.1-Ounce Packages (Pack of 2) tastes VERY much like the brew you get at the bistro (or better) for a much smaller cost.
Remember, there are TWO different types of milk cartridges for Tassimo. Latte's use a regular steamed milk cartridge and machiatos and cappuccinos use a frothed milk cartridge. Same milk, different texture due to differences in bar coding on each of the disks.
Highly Recommend This Machine.