ID: B001DCYRH6-R41WXKEUDMHWK-A29WOWF7GNCTBR
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: HOOVER-COMPANY-Commercial-Portapower-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A29WOWF7GNCTBR
ReviewerName: Joya G. Gerritsma "JGG"
Date: January 5, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Good quality, good price, good suction, small, light weight. Nice
Content:
I really like this vacuum. We just had hardwood floors installed throughout our 2 bed, 2 bath condo and the installer suggested we get a shop vac to simply and easily clean the floors. So I did - big mistake. That thing is huge, I can't pull it around without bumping into all kinds of walls, corners, furniture, the cord is really short, so I have to unplug/plug it in multiple times to vacuum my 1100 sq ft condo. Plus the shop vac takes up a ton of valuable closet space. Plus the shop vac has such a large caliber hose that the suction is really weak and it doesn't do a good job of picking up anything on the first or even second pass.
This vacuum is the opposite: small, portable, has strong suction and makes me much happier to vacuum. I hung it up in the closet by the shoulder strap and put the sturdy handle in the closet corner (and put the shop vac in the storage unit for when we have an actual need for a shop vac). It comes with nice attachments too. You just put it on your shoulder like a shoulder bag and go. And the electrical cord is super long, so I didn't have to unplug/plug in multiple times. It got dirt in corners and along walls really well. Time is an issue, and this vacuum is easy to get out, easy to use, and easy to put away, making it more likely that I'll vacuum my house more often. 
One thing that I would like to have seen different is a more spine-friendly design. The shoulder strap really should be more of a back-pack style strap because after vacuuming my place, my neck/shoulder (trapezius) muscle was really sore. It also doesn't get under low furniture as well as some other vacuums I've used, but I'm willing to give that up for all the other really great things about this vacuum. 
I love the hose - it coils back on itself so it's not hanging on the ground and in the way when you vacuum, but it does extend to reach places. It also makes it nice for storage - again, because it's not a floppy mess all over the closet floor. Hopefully the hose keeps that tight coil/spring throughout it's life in my house. 
I've only had it a few hours and used it once, but so far I really like it and am impressed. 
I'm glad I bought this vacuum and so far, would definitely choose to buy it again.