ID: B0012YA85A-R2XHCL6J6GS2P7-A1PKJQ0442YYUW
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Camera-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A1PKJQ0442YYUW
ReviewerName: Angela Christian
Date: March 17, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Entry Level Camera???
Content:
I keep reading how this is a great entry level camera for the DSLR world.. But what about those of us who just want the DSLR photo quality with out going over a grand?  I happen to fall into that category more so then the entry level one.. I admit I have purchased another lens for this camera and I have some filters and a tripod.. BUT in my point and shoot defense, it is just to get even a better shot... 
I have lived in a point and shoot world for about 8 years now.. I have always had great luck with Canon point and shoots so when I finally got to the point of desiring better quality photos then what my point and shoot could offer me. I ended up looking at the DSLR's.  I wanted something to where I could set up the camera to do it's thing while I focused on whatever subject. I liked my preset settings on my point and shoot.  And I wanted to keep them on next camera.  I really wasn't and I am still not interested in aperture focal points or any of that other stuff.  I wanted awesome pictures that I could share with family of mostly my dogs and vacation photos.. 
And this camera provides it.. I am not or cannot sit here and write up a review telling you its strengths and weaknesses because honestly I don't see the weaknesses. For me I see awesome photo quality with the ability to do a whole lot more..  I do not foresee myself purchasing a new camera for a good 5 to 6 years.. I am hoping for more like 10 but we shall see..  Which is a lot better then the point and shoots which I was averaging about one every other year. Not because they would break but because photo quality would improve so much that I would end up moving to the next camera.   This camera fits my needs as a weekend photographer and constant scrapbooker. And has photo quality that is close to actual 35mm.  
It is a little too big for theme parks so I will always have some type of point and shoot.. Let me explain a little to big.. It is not huge by any means but when you are walking around a theme park you do not want to have a 600 dollar camera around your neck.. This camera does not fit into a pocket like most point and shoots therefore making it to me a bit of a burden to carry.  Personally for myself I would rather just have the pocket point and shoot.  You can also hold on to a point and shoot on a roller coaster a lot better then this camera. 
I LOVE this camera. And the photos it has taken.. I have had a few of them blown up and they are now framed and on my walls..