ID: B0012Y88QQ-R1DE2F0NOH2T43-A2L8QPQTI1L34C
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A2L8QPQTI1L34C
ReviewerName: N. D. Slater
Date: March 2, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best camera value for under $1500 new.
Content:
There really isn't a better deal out there under $1500, or at least under $1,000... under the canon/nikon lineup. After 7 months of use, I can say that this is one amazing camera. It has many of the functions that you get with the 50D. Unless you care about HD video or care about being able to do some major cropping to your photos, your best best for the $ is the XSi. 
One thing to take note is that the noise levels are amazing. One step down from this camera and you get way too much noise. The 50D has very comparable noise levels. I shoot in a club at iso 1600, exposures without flash run into 1/2 second... noise reduced, they are still excellent quality.. even at 1:1 crops. 
Also a note on buttons: If you care about using your camera quickly and usefully (unlike a point and shoot) DON'T buy any lower than this! Any step down is missing the shortcut hardware buttons. Why buy an slr, only to change settings in menus?? Sure it is still missing a few buttons, but you can set your own custom menu to help negate that drawback. 
Metering is decent, you need to make sure to point at a more neutral object to get a good reading. With using the in-camera spot metering on a lastolite ezybalance gray card to get an exposure reading (then switching the camera from Aperture Priority, to Manual and inputing those settings read), the exposure is quite good. 
No IR assist lamp, so you will have to use an external flash with flash firing turned off (assuming you don't want to use flash) to use its IR assist lamp to focus in the dark. The feature to turn flash firing off, while using the focus assist lamp, is missing on a lot of cameras - so watch out if this is something you are interested in. 
Quality is great, noise levels are great, auto focus is pretty good, metering is ok, LCD is amazing (!), no IR assist lamp =(
Well I'd recommend you stop reading user reviews and go read some professional reviews from somewhere like dpreview, the-digital-picture, and steve's digicams. These are more opinion article-esk than factual professional comparisons.