ID: B0017YUX5A-R2WKRFDC41MEZH-A2BQWRNYTTL6MP
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3670-WindTunnel-Anniversary-Canister
ReviewerID: A2BQWRNYTTL6MP
ReviewerName: AM "desert flower"
Date: April 3, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 5
Rating: 2.0
Title: Would not buy it again
Content:
I purchased this vacuum online in October of 2008.  I did check it out at a local vacuum store.  I had not owned a canister vacuum before, but I thought it would be a good choice because of the amount of hard floors we have.  I think the vacuum does do a decent job on our ceramic tile, but you have to get used to dragging the canister around behind you.  If it gets stuck on the cord and won't roll over it you have to pick the canister up over it.  I do wish now that I had considered some of the smaller canister vacuums for "sweeping" my bare floors.  This canister has nice features with the swivel wheels, but is still difficult to maneuver at times.
My biggest disappointment with the functionality of this vacuum is trying to vacuum carpeted bedrooms in my home.  If you don't have a lot of extra space in a room it makes it very difficult to maneuver the canister around.  I have now decided that I am going to buy an upright to vacuum my carpeted areas.  The canister is just too much of a pain to use by the time you drag the canister and try to maneuver it around the cord.
The suction on the vacuum is good, but I've noticed that the bags don't last a long time.  My old upright had larger bags that lasted for quite some time.  Not sure if this is the bag design or the clip that holds the bag in, but I've noticed that when you stand the canister upright the bag tends to slide out of the clip a bit.  As another reviewer mentioned on her vacuum, my vacuum has also clogged a few times and I've had to pull some hair and lint out of the hose where it attaches to the canister.
This vacuum has some nice features with the retractable cord, swivel wheels, adjustable power/suction, but I wonder about the quality of the vacuum head and how long it will last.  It is made from a lot of plastic and I've noticed mine squeeking a bit already.  I paid around $200 for the vacuum and am glad I didn't pay the retail price which is closer to $300.
My main comment to those reading this review would be to make sure you want this big of a canister and are willing to pull it around with you as compared to using an upright.  I've decided I miss the convenience of an upright over any advantages a canister might have.