ID: B0012Y89JW-R7640Q72KK4TR-A182M922SDMOP3
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-XSI-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A182M922SDMOP3
ReviewerName: C. Nekritz
Date: March 23, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: Canon Leads, Nikon, Others in the Industry Follow
Content:
Canon has come a long way since it first turned the DSLR, the consumer digital version of 35 mm cameras, on it's ear about a half a decade ago. While competitors like Nikon and others have attempted to keep up, equal, or top Canon with a slightly better feature here or there, Canon still leads, the the industry follows. So the question when buying is this, do you want to buy the leader, or are you just a follower. Myself, personally, am not into imitation, and I've tried some of the other units including Nikon DSLRs, which their images always look hard, cold, and slightly off. Sony comes to bat with a lower entry price but not as much support sadly or features, Olympus as well. There's others of course, but really there's Canon and then everyone else.
I like this camera, a lot, but have to deduct a half point as it's quality is even cheaper than the original 300D (Rebel XT), the plastics make it feel very toy-like. The other half a point is this camera has quite possibly the loudest shutter ever, next to perhaps those cameras that make the supposed shutter closing sound effect turned up to 11. I've shot with other consumer-grade Canon and Nikons that are much more quiet than this, it's really uncalled for on Canon's part. Perhaps their shutters are made of the same cheap plastic they're using for their cases. The 450D (XSi) is so loud, it borders on frustratingly annoying. Don't use this camera for even slightly hushed performances or places where some degree of silence is required, you'll only irk people. If shooting in even remotely quiet places requires no disturbance you may need to upgrade to a 5D or some such to retain the Canon quality edge and a quieter shutter.
Despite this and removing a star, it has most if not many the features the higher prosumer level cameras have no blurring the line further between the $1K+ set and the sub $1K set of choices. In terms of bang for the buck, you're not going to get anything better. Besides, the true testament to taking good shots is in your glass, so if you're taking the route of investing in lenses and skimping a bit on the camera body, this is the camera for you! The images are stunning, no doubt about, it's almost hard, other than perhaps upping their body quality and shutter quality, what Canon could do better with the Rebel series, but I'm sure Canon will figure something out, and all the other poor imitations out there (Nikon, et. al.) will continue to play catch up.