ID: B001GCTT7G-R2ZJWC1OB1UUDJ-AW3VZ5O895LRK
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB467LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: AW3VZ5O895LRK
ReviewerName: carol irvin "carol irvin"
Date: August 8, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: "I'll Never Go Back" So Says Everyone Upon Buying the Macbook
Content:
When I see other people with their Macbooks out and about and ask them how they like theirs, I get the same comment every time.  Said with all the fervor of the new religious convert, they reverently say to me, "I'll never go back."  Back is of course to a PC (shudder).  I gave my husband my former Macbook upon buying this one and he is now also muttering this as he is forced to use a PC in his workplace.  I was not always a Mac nut.  I thought that everyone was a bit batty about them and that Windows XP was just fine and dandy despite the fact that I was reformatting the hard drive every six months, getting rid of trojan horses, putting in one security program after another to protect it, defragmenting it when it slowed down, etc., ad nauseum.  This all ended with the Macbook as Macs are secure and don't need any of this fussing as it is all taken care of automatically within the machine itself.  I use one little program to clean it up about once a week and that's that.  I also have a three year warranty on each machine. I have used the warranty on my prior Macbook twice and the Apple Store's Genius Bar fixed one problem overnight and the other within 15 minutes, both problems completely covered under the warranty. My Macbook is very lightweight, never gets hot to the touch (a frequent problem with other laptops), works perfectly with every application whether graphics, audio-visual playback, word processing, ebook reading or web building.  I almost got the Macbook Pro instead but am glad I did not as it would have been too big and too heavy.  I use my Macbook all day long for everything and would not appreciate that extra weight or size.  I liked the Macbook so well that I purchased the iphone when it first came out without any doubts about it at all.  I also love it.  So yes, I have become one of those Mac nuts. i can't even imagine how I lived before having one, it is that integral to my life.  I notice the price has gone down since I bought my Macbook so the timing for new converts couldn't be better.