ID: B001TK5KK0-RMP9H7I9CETE1-A10P4N7EI754IN
Category: MP3Players
Product: Exclusive-Offer-Pro-Ebiz-Llc
ReviewerID: A10P4N7EI754IN
ReviewerName: Fernando D. Medina Llorens "Fernando"
Date: June 22, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: good sound almost perfect touchscreen-> update "but to sensitive"
Content:
I had gotten this mp3 for about a month is great. It arrived in a week and a half from the day I ordered. It is a good looking device with great sound quality, and great video quality. One thing I notice is that if you have low bit rate or crappy audio files the device might not even like to play it. Is fully compatible with drag and drop in Linux but I have not find a multimedia program that would detect the device properly but is not a big issue since with drag and drop gets all info from ID3 tags perfectly to include album art if using a program called EasyTag (the only one I tried so far) In windows, media player is just find or you can still use drag and drop. The build in speaker for some reason is high on music but low in volume on video but is not bad at all. Under linux be carefully when adding files do one cd at a time or files that are not more than 700 mg at a time since it might freeze but don't worry it those download them really quick so just drag and drop another one, ones the first is done. It happens since is getting confused with the big amount of small files been added at the same time so don't worry it will not happen with video files since is one big file. Battery life is probably going to be a problem. At first it seems alright but it seems to be slowly decreasing the amount of play. I think is not the battery itself but more a program deficiency were the player thinks the battery is full when it is not. I think this is the case since when I fully charge the battery and I unplug it, the device tells me is one bar less than fully charged. So far that is my only issue but for the price who cares!!!One more thing the only really bad thing about the device is the headphones that come with it, they are really bad. 
update: solved problem for charging the battery just charge it when is fully on! The touchscreen is really sensitive but I have gotten use to it. I have no complain in the music part of the device it plays almost everything I have put on it and sound quality still great it organizes everything in order and with album art.( Your device might not put your music in the right order if using a windows computer program that lets you have multiple uploads at the same time, reason is that the computer might finish downloading the shortest file first and the device organizes by the order it is received this problem should be solved by drag and drop, but I haven't use Windows in months now so don't quote me :-). For video I found that .avi plays the best but it will only play if at 480x240 a weird resolution(I think) but it works every time and is the format I use mostly for video on the device. for .flv is being sensitive about playback, I realize after playing with it on a weekend that if the audio and video weren't synchronized 100% perfectly when playing on the computer it is most likely it will not play on the device. I got the 8gb version so I decided to buy a 16gb micro SDHC and it works great now I have a 24gb player!!! I have tried to play Mp4 video files but no success stories in that department to me it seems that that doesn't work. Also going back about the battery it will only do about 1hour and 10 minutes on video mode so you might not get to see the ending of your movie specially if you were listening to music before you started the movie(so is not that good for movies just because of that), but if just playing music it lasts a good 5 to 7 hours not much compare to other players but thats half a day right there and I notice that if you actually turn off the device (the on off switch one) it conserves the battery life longer than other devices when not in use.