ID: B001D23QKA-R7ARF8XEBCFCG-A1QYCR2SH9LHRB
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Zen-Mozaic-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A1QYCR2SH9LHRB
ReviewerName: D. S. Oman
Date: August 14, 2008
Helpful: 93 of 93
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great player and a great price!
Content:
I've had the Zen Mozaic 4 GB for about a week now, and I love it!  Here is just a short list of the pros and cons I have noticed.
Pros:
Price - It's very cost-effective for the tons of features included!
FM Radio - The radio signal strength is unimpressive, but a plus nonetheless, since many don't offer this feature.  Note: the radio antenna is built into the headphones, so with just the built-in speaker, there is no radio reception at all.  Headphones must be plugged in.
Alarm clock - I love being able to set the song that I wake up to, and with the built-in speaker it works much like a cell-phone alarm clock.
Built-in speaker - Now you can share a song with a friend without sharing your headphones.  The speaker sounds better than I thought it would considering how small the device is.  I wouldn't listen to it for hours, but it's a nice additional feature.
Battery Life - When they say 30+ hours, they're not joking.  Very impressive battery life.
Cons:
Plastic - The whole thing is made of plastic and feels somewhat toylike.  Although I hesitate to call this a "con" because it feels very sturdy and well-made.  If you want a metallic feel, you'll have to fork out the extra money for a Zune or iPod (twice the price).
Headphones - The headphones are pretty cheap.  The music sounds tinny when you use them, but if you use nicer headphones, sound quality is good!  Once again, the radio antenna is in the headphones if you want to use this feature.
My overall impression is that I am very satisfied with the product.  I don't use it much for videos, but the included software will convert videos to .avi format for viewing, which is nice but the screen is a bit small for using it as a video player very often.  I use Media Monkey for syncing, but you can use Windows Media Player or simply Drag and Drop.
Audio quality is great with better headphones and the interface is simple to use.  The design, I think, is very sleek and unique, but obviously not for everyone.  If you're looking for a nice little player to give as a gift or just to stash in your pocket, this is a great choice!