ID: B0018SBN9K-R25LB499G2KICV-A377FKX8IITGH4
Category: MP3Players
Product: Sandisk-Shaker-Player-SDMX9N-1024R-A18-Package
ReviewerID: A377FKX8IITGH4
ReviewerName: Stephanie Diederich
Date: May 22, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: IMPORTANT THINGS TO KNOW
Content:
Okay, here are some important drawbacks to the Shaker.
BestBuy and Rhapsody both say the Shaker is Rhapsody compatible. It is in no way compatible. You're just going to have to add tracks to the SD card or device as is - they will not automatically format to mp3.
Which brings us to point two. Mp3 format only. Get a program to convert your non-mp3 files like switch audio file converter.
Third point. The bottom falls off easily, though it's tethered by a little black cord. I got some hook-and-eye (velcro) stick on dots, and attached one to the bottom of the player, and the other to the piece that kept falling off, and all is fine now.
Fourth point. The shake feature is said to be a shuffle feature. Not true. Shaking the player only skips two tracks ahead instead of just one track.
Fifth point. There is no navigation. It works like the shuffle, except there is no shuffle feature. You can set up your files in folders, they should play alphabetically by folder, then alphabetically by folder name.
I don't think playlists work on this player, I haven't tried yet.
---
Otherwise, the speaker is INCREDIBLY loud for the player's size, and fills a small room with sound. The player is really cheap for the features it has, and again, I'm just amazed by the quality of the sound. Not a lot of bass, but really loud.
I've heard of errors with this player, but haven't encountered any yet. I suggest transferring files via an SD slot on your computer, rather than using the USB cable that comes with the player.
Definitely a good buy for the kids, or for older adults who don't wanna have to deal with fancy joysticks and other bells & whistles. Probably not the best for an avid music fan. Get it before it's a collector's item! I think they're out of production now. Just a few left...