ID: B0012Y6HC8-R2SPGAGPJ753N5-A1WHX5W6VHGTA
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-XSI-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A1WHX5W6VHGTA
ReviewerName: C. Gill "Man En Route"
Date: April 30, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Exactly what I wanted in a camera
Content:
I've had this camera for over a year now, and it's great.  It does everything I need a camera to do, and any flubbed shots are my fault.  The newer/upgraded versions of the Canon Digital Rebel are of course superior, but I don't feel any need to upgrade.  The included software is OK, battery life is great for me, the video-out port can come in quite useful, and the USB port is as quick as I need.  I sometimes wish that I could keep the orientation of portrait-mode shots in the display when I go back to them (so they fill the display), but that's a minor gripe.  The auto white balance sometimes results in undesirable tint, so it's best not to depend on it too much.
I got it with the kit lens, which although not a wonderful lens is a decent and very usable starter lens without major flaws, and a good value for the money.  It was my only lens with image stabilization, and I quickly found it more useful than my third-party 28-200 for that reason.  The worst thing about the kit lens is that it doesn't let the camera take shots at the quality of which it is capable, but for an extra $100, it's quite a bargain if you don't have anything else.  However, if you can afford it, get a better lens and skip the kit lens.  My Canon 50mm f1.8 (Mk I) makes for a very decent portrait lens.   I just replaced the kit lens with the 15-85 EF-S IS lens as my main lens (and the cheap 55-200 EF-S IS for the rare long telephoto shot) but I'll keep the kit lens as a backup.
I'm an occasional amateur photographer and not a true student of photography.  I don't call myself a photographer, but people are generally very pleased with photos of them taken with this camera.  It's nice to know that when I do take photos, I don't have to be an expert to get the pictures I want.