ID: B001JAGYLY-RKO801LXU6CHG-AG4AYTI057DY3
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3825-Cyclonic-Bagless-Canister
ReviewerID: AG4AYTI057DY3
ReviewerName: D. R. Hahn
Date: February 15, 2009
Helpful: 28 of 28
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great vacuum power, slightly messy dust disposal
Content:
Our Hoover wind tunnel vacuum was beginning to show some wear after 6 years (power cord insulation broken) so we decided to spend a little more money and buy a Dyson DC14. As soon as it was out of the box and turned on it made a horrible grinding racket so it went right back in the box and back to the store. I was gun shy about buying another vacuum and spent a lot more time trying them out. Having owned several Hoover vacuums including a carpet cleaner that I love, I began to think I shouldn't stray from a reliable brand but I was still open-minded as I shopped and used several different brands and models at the store. I found the Hoover Elite Cyclonic to be the best that I tried. It is very simple to operate, with common sense, intuitive hookups between the canister and hose and the hose and wand. The adjustable wand is heavy duty metal and clicks quickly and easily in and out of the power nozzle. The power nozzle itself has a light and a powered, spinning brush that I like. The cyclone canister holds plenty of dust and lint and is easy to empty. I was leery about buying a canister since I have always found uprights easy to move around but I have absolutely no trouble handling the Elite Cyclonic. The adjustable handle is a plus since I am tall and my wife is shorter, and we can both vacuum comfortably. An absolute plus given my worn electrical cord problem is the automatic cord reel, which winds the cord into the canister body at the touch of a spring-loaded button. The vacuum is powerful and pulled dust, lint, and hair out of the carpet as well as the Dyson I used, but with none of the noise and flimsyness that I experienced with that brand.
The ONLY minor complaint I have about this vacuum concerns the fact that since it is bagless, there is a slight dusty mess when emptying the canister container into the wastebasket. I believe this to be true with any of the bagless vacuums currently on the market, and it empties quite like the Dyson that I tried. This messy disposal is certainly offset by the convenience and cost savings of not having to buy replacement bags. I highly recommend this vacuum cleaner!