ID: B001ET6QFO-R1H2NAM0E2222Q-A17NVM7IAPF2NS
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-50D-Digital-18-200mm-Standard
ReviewerID: A17NVM7IAPF2NS
ReviewerName: Maek
Date: January 29, 2009
Helpful: 22 of 23
Rating: 5.0
Title: Out of this world camera...
Content:
This camera is breathtakingly outstanding!  If you're seriously considering doing some professional photography but you're a little irked by the price tag of DSLR offerings ($2,000 for the body and above), then stop here.  You will not be disappointed.
For those reviews stating that images are "too soft", etc., please check Jodi-Ann Richards' review that nearly has 600 helpful votes (as of 1/29/09).  She covers the camera in exhaustive detail.
If you don't have time to review her pages-long review, however, here's a quick summary of her bottom line:  this camera's megapixel count of 15.1 REQUIRES GOOD OPTICS.  It follows the old saying of "garbage in garbage out".  If you buy cheap optics, then you'll be horrifically disappointed.  You need the good optics to exploit the most of its 15.1 megapixel capabilities.  That said, some reviews (notably dpreview.com) have stated that the increase of 5 megapixels from the 40D and the 50D are hardly noticeable, but keep in mind that they are testing the camera using one of the cheaper lens options.  They do go on to say, however, that the megapixel count does demand good optics.  I dare say that they would have been more pleased with the image quality if they had purchased one of Canon's "L" lenses.
I personally bought a Canon EF 24-105mm f/4 L IS USM lens ("L" is Canon's "flagship" line).  The lens itself costs almost the same as the body itself, but is well worth it.  The optics on this lens and the autofocus speed (lightning quick for a walkabout telephoto) is superb and the image results do not disappoint.  Also, being able to maintain a f/4 aperture throughout the full length of the zoom is nice.
If you're looking into professional work, feel that the Canon Rebel doesn't give you the control that you'd like, and feel that spending more than $2,000 for a camera body is too much, then this is your camera.  It maintains the balance of being able to be fully automatic to allowing you to manually adjust aperture, ISO speed, shutter speed, etc. by yourself.
You will not be disappointed with this purchase - just remember to get a GOOD LENS for this camera.  It's crucial.