ID: B001HSMW6O-R3UKSZGGWONEPF-APR35AGAT503B
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-SDC850-Spacemaker-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: APR35AGAT503B
ReviewerName: Armyguy71 "armyguy71"
Date: June 12, 2009
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 4.0
Title: Nice coffee pot!!
Content:
The Black and Decker SDC850 is a very nice looking coffeepot.  
Thankfully I read the previous reviews on here when I bought it so was prepared for a difficult time with installation.  I have three suggestions to make this MUCH easier for everyone who buys this.  1) remove the top cover with the help of a 2nd person!!  Pops right off when one person holds the sides of the coffee pot and the 2nd person pushes down and out on the top cover (this is not a matter of strength - as one person felt it necessary to give their stats (funny!!) - but simply a matter of leverage.  2) Do not trust the template 100%, it is a good guide to make your holes but is off when used to judge the distance from the front of the coffeepot and where it will sit from the front of the cabinet.  Set where you think your holes should be by drawing a straight line with a pencil, then measure and recheck!  and last but not least 3) go to Home Depot or Lowes and buy two #10-32 X 2" machine screws (fine thread) for the right side.  For most standard cabinets you will use the two longest screws on the holes on the left and the two you will buy on the right, along with the two largest spacers on each bolt/screw.  
Follow these 3 tips and you should have a hassle free installation which is what seems to be everyones main complaint!  Now, enough about the installation, on to the actual unit itself.
This is my first stainless steel carafe.  The unit I was using before was Mr. Coffee model FTX23.  This coffee pot was quite a change.  For one, I didn't notice is said it was an 8 cup (my old was a 12 cup).  The size might have discouraged me if I had noticed but honestly this may be better, less coffee left over and thrown away.  The taste is good and the coffee seemed to stay fresh and hot for 4 hrs, may last even longer but that was how long mine lasted.  I do wish they would have lit the LCD clock.  The pictures really don't do the unit justice.  The pictures make the plastic parts of this unit look greyish and cheap.  This unit is black and stainless and really compliments my kitchen with all black appliances.  I don't think it looks cheap at all.  It is a very nice looking unit.  I really like the blue LED lights that light up the power button and the see through water level window.  As someone else on here previously pointed out, the instruction manual does say to unplug after use, it also tells you how to keep from breaking your glass carafe!  These are obviously generic instructions used across many different models.  I am just curious how much electricity is actually used by this pot by just leaving it plugged in all the time, as I can't imagine resetting the clock every day!  As far as I'm concerned the problems with the installation are the only reason I'm not giving this 5 stars.