ID: B001NEK34K-R3O2H8F08ER508-ASKEK2PVSHWM8
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-A355-S6935-16-0-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: ASKEK2PVSHWM8
ReviewerName: Derrick L. Dunn
Date: April 6, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Toshiba Satellite A355-S6935
Content:
Its a great laptop.  Good for gaming.  Runs fast and quiet.  Runs cool anywhere from 95 - 105 degrees f.  I bought the vantec lapcool 4 lpc430 laptop cooler and it really works well on this laptop.  It can decrease the temperature by 20 degrees.  It attracts fingerprints, and includes a soft cloth for wiping them off.  The mouse buttons are a little stiff, and the web cam isn't to impressive, but it is better than some I've seen.  The wireless is extremely good on it.  Excellent range.  The speakers sound great.  They are the loudest laptop speakers I have heard.  The face recognition doesn't work.  It will load the program and have you put your face on it.  But when you try to log in it will fail to recognize your face.  There are only 4 display resolutions so not a lot of options for display.  The display looks really sharp on any of the 4 settings.  If you want to play a movie or video in full screen the display will need to be set at 1024 by 768.  Unless the video is in wide screen format, then you can set it at 1366 by 768 and watch it full screen.  You can install the free mobility modder and this will add 9 extra display resolutions.  I don't think the sleep and charge works.  There is an option to change this in the bios but it has failed to charge my phone on both modes even when the laptop is plugged in.  The media buttons above the keyboard do not work for everything.  I have only got them to work when playing music or a video with windows media player.  They do not work when streaming a video or music from the internet.  If your typing a document, email, or filling out a form, or typing anything then the cursor will probably jump around on you.  It is very easy to swipe your hand across the track pad and cause the cursor to jump around.  I tried to disable the track pad and use a usb mouse but I haven't found a way to disable the track pad.  Your suppose to hold the fn key and press f9 but it doesn't disable it.  I also downloaded the synaptics program from the toshiba website.  This doesn't allow you to disable the track pad either.  It is a little heavy for a laptop.  The battery lasts for about 2 hours if your not using it for watching a video or playing a game.  It will fit in a case that saids fits up to 15.4 inch.  Do not install avg free anti virus on this laptop.  It will cause boot errors and make the laptop boot and run very slow.  A good free anti virus for this laptop is avira antivir anti virus.  A good free firewall is comodo.  All in all its worth the money.  If your looking for a laptop to game on and load quickly and play media this is the one.