ID: B001350BJQ-R2ZE1B6C0W8P9I-AF0WV09FZFVNE
Category: MP3Players
Product: Ebiz-Video-Player-2-8-inch-Touchscreen
ReviewerID: AF0WV09FZFVNE
ReviewerName: Joseph Foster "Joe Joe"
Date: December 6, 2008
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 3.0
Title: This product will eat at you.
Content:
From the moment I opened the box to see this player I have been dissapointed.
No stylus came with it, even though it is advertised.
I felt like I was pressing the screen into buttons rather than touching it.
the picture viewer takes forever to load anything bigger than a thumbnail.
the record feature freezes the player up every time.
the videos have to be in avi format.
it is strictly MP3 format, there is no MP4 format, and I had to convert everything using a converter downloaded myself with no help from the software included, which is all scrambled and not explained.
the games are very horribly put together and more of a burden than they are worth to play with two buttons, not the screen.
the other problem I had was that they contacted me asking me to write the review where I am now writing it even though I was very happy with where I put my complaints, where everyone would see them...
They then claimed that they offered me a refund, i guess they have never heard of libel? I have the original e-mail if anyone is interested, for they did not offer me a refund nor help, only that I move my other statement telling the world how bad the product is.
It was a great example of false advertisement and misleading information.
it was not what you would expect, and you will be dissapointed if you want to do anything beside listen to music. 
I also believe they write their own reviews, even some of the more neutral ones so that they make themselves look better, but only because it seems that everyone had the same exact long, draining experience, where as with better quality technology, the reviews are quick and to the point.
Just an assumption though, I might be wrong.
I had a bad experience with the player.
the music player part of it is great but I think you can find something better if that's all you care about.
I trust this product about as much as its plastic broken ear phones it comes with.
just continue browsing around if you can help it.
these people seem bent on doing whatever they need to to make it look like anyone with an opinion like mine looks stupid.
the bad reviews are not all wrong, and I have had similar bad experiences.