ID: B001MIYXH0-R3R9GJ3SVQ1DBE-A38D1RKG2YKC8E
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Lasko-753500-30-Inch-Oscillating-Pedestal
ReviewerID: A38D1RKG2YKC8E
ReviewerName: ....
Date: April 16, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Lasko Tower Heaters - Hail To The King!
Content:
ASSEMBLY: The only thing I had to assemble, was the heaters support and base. The unit comes with two plastic halves, which have to be joined together, and then secured with two M4 13mm Phillips screws. After running the power cord through the support column, you then have to take the support column, and secure it to the heater with four M5 13mm Phillips screws. Then you run the power cord through the base plate, and secure to the support column, with another four M5 13mm Phillips screws.
OPERATING: There are several modes to explain here, so bear with me. When you first plug the heater in, you will see an LED indicator to let you know, power is being sent to the unit. When you first turn the unit on, it will automatically be in high power (1500 Watts) mode. To switch to low power, (900 Watts) you have to press the H-L button, on the unit, or remote. If you live in a different country and are using the Celsius scale, instead of Fahrenheit, to switch display modes, press the + and - buttons simultaneously. If you press them again, you will go back to displayed Fahrenheit.
LED DISPLAY: This heater has a LED display, with a beautiful wood finish surrounding it, which gives it that cool retro look. Power indicator, temperature modes, and temperature level, can be seen within the display. The display is backlit, so you can see your settings in the dark, and is easy to see.
OSCILLATION MODE: To activate oscillation mode, you have to press the oscillate button on the unit, or remote. The whole top of the unit oscillates back and fourth. This means, I had to position the heater, so it was not shoving hot air into my wall, or dresser.
AUTOMATIC MODE: To activate automatic mode, all you have to do, is press the + or - buttons. When in automatic mode, it also automatically chooses which power setting to use, based on ambient temperature. To set the temperature, press the + or - buttons, until you have reached your desired temperature level. I like my bedroom set at 70-F and no higher, and the automatic mode does a good job keeping it there.
REMOTE: The remote has all the capability's of the unit, except for the changing from Celsius to Fahrenheit display. The remote uses infrared technology, the same as your TV remote, and I find it to be quite handy to have, cause I can operate it from bed!
MY EXPERIENCE: Turning this heater on HIGH, is much quieter then my old heater by miles. And when the heater is in LOW mode, it is so silent, I can't even hear it running! I have a small 15' by 15' bedroom, when in HIGH power mode, it will heat up the room from 40 degrees to 70 degrees in less then 30 minutes!
SET AND FORGET: When I go to bed, I don't want to have to worry about waking up in the middle of the night, because my heater is overheating the room. All I have to do, (after getting into bed) is use the remote to set my desired temperature, and then fall asleep. I can sleep soundly, and comfortably, because the room won't be freezing nor 90-degrees. 
CONCLUSION: The ability to have an oscillation mode to direct the heat better in the room, and the LED display, and remote control, make this Lasko heater, the best heater I have ever owned!And above all, if you are somebody who is a light sleeper, you will appreciate how quiet this heater is. Lasko still has me hooked, 5 out of 5!