ID: B001DN83ES-R1Q60EDFE38HD6-A130YN8T37O833
Category: Laptops
Product: Dell-Studio-1545-Midnight-Blue
ReviewerID: A130YN8T37O833
ReviewerName: Always Samsung "ravereviews"
Date: January 4, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Laptop - Dell Can Get Very Expensive
Content:
Length:: 2:44 MinsThis is the Dell Studio 15 inch laptop (Green Colored Case). I think this a great lap top and it gets the job done. I kept reading all the negative reviews and i have no idea why there's so much bad press. I have never once called customer service and i ordered my laptop at Dell directly through their website. I have no reason to contact customer service and i never experienced any problems at all with any of my Dell products. I get so baffled when i read all these negative reviews. My Dell products which i have had for years including a Dell desktop and a recently purchased new netbooks have never been a problem. The desk top i have is more than 6 years old and I never have any problems. It runs great. It can definitely benefit from an upgrade in some areas.
The Studio line is Dell's midrange laptops. The Inspiron being there low end range for consumers that just need a standard laptop. The Dell Studio laptop is completely plastic and it's a bit on the heavy side in my opinion. Maybe because i am so use to my light weight Dell 10 min netbook that i have been spoiled. This is a good lap top. However, i think the flaw in Dell is that their products can get very pricey very quickly. Especially when you are adding in high end features like 6GB RAM rather than 3GB RAM or 2.99GHZ instead of 2.33GHZ etc. You can get the same thing at HP for probably around a hundred dollars less and their quality feels a bit more refined, polished, and sturdy. That being said if you check Dell's website they do have deals going on all the time especially on holidays. But for some reason the price never seems as low as it should be. If you check periodically you will find yourself a deal. I go to that website religiously and build the exact same laptop that I have and it always comes up to more money. I got mine on a special promo.
I really regret getting the green covered case. I didn't realize how bright it would be and once i opened it out of the box - I really wish i purchased the Dark Blue or Dark Purple colored case. It's really way too bright. I like the personalization options of the different colors, but i really do regret getting this bright Caribbean green color. My laptop also includes the backlit keyboard which is great for typing in the dark. It also has touch sensitive controls towards the top of the keyboard near the speakers and i think that's a great plus. The DVD is also an optical drive, so there is no door that slides out for you to pop in your DVD. It's like a Playstation 3 slot. You slide the DVDs in & out.
Pros:
15 inch screen
Optical DVD slot
4GB RAM
750 GB Memory
2.66GHZ
Backlit keyboard
4 UBS slots
HDMI outport
Sleak shiek design
Different colored cases
Wi-Fi
Webcam
Cons:
Windows Vista (Super Whack)
A bit pricey in my opinion (That's Dell for you)
A bit on the heavy side