ID: B001BTG3BE-R2R0XF9M5MQE6Y-A36QP5AS786Y0B
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-12-1MP-Digital-24-120mm-3-5-5-6G
ReviewerID: A36QP5AS786Y0B
ReviewerName: Edward
Date: August 7, 2008
Helpful: 19 of 29
Rating: 5.0
Title: Pro Artist's review
Content:
Hello all, this is my review after few weeks of using this camera. To be honest I bought Canon 5D not too long before getting this camera because of their instant-rebate. I got Canon 5D because I already owned D200 - which is a good camera, well built but it's in shop now because I stupidly tried to clean the focusing screen and it got scratched. At the time I didn't want another Nikon because I wanted Canon so I can get a different look that is not Nikon. But, my attitude changed after reading all the reviews and watching videos on Youtube.com. Along with the aggressive stance that Nikon has taken I decided to make the plunge, and I don't regret it one bit. I still would like to keep 5D just in case I need those special shots, but I've been using the new D700 more often because I guess I'm used to D200 and it's similar in functions. My review is different that I'm not a full-time photographer - I do take pictures for people as a favor. I'm however a professional artist as you can check out my site.  My website: http://www.edleeart.com/ I'm prone to edges of line especially and colors that are slightly different than your normal colors - just so that my art stands out  different than others. Originally I had used Canon T90 in the 80's but renting a Nikon back then I have always favored the way Nikon captured images, the light, color, tone, chroma and hue. Also, edges of shapes are clearly defined which is what I'm used to drawing and painting all of my life. And Nikon seems to bring that out more often than the Canon's. I believe this is just a matter of taste but I'm always dazzled by Nikon's images in terms of capturing life and all it's glory. While Canon's also take amazing pictures I opted for D700 because of what it offers for the money that you pay. It's basically D3 in D300 body - you probably have read this line zillions of times but it's true. The images are what I prefer over Canon's for the reason I've mentioned above. 
I could have gotten D3 or even D1 Mk III but I like the way I can break up the camera in two (I've the vertical grip as well) in case you need to pack them. And the pop-up flash becomes quite handy as well in case you just want to pack the camera and leave the battery and external flash at home for light travel. I could go on and on about this camera but when this camera came out and saw the body shape and its specs I knew this camera is made for me, and perhaps for you as well. 
I strongly recommend this camera only if you can afford it, if not there are other good cameras as well that are less expensive. If you want the highest image quality and low light photography with all the goods this is the camera that delivers and is worth every bit of the cost. You can see my samples at http://edleeart.typepad.com/. I hope this review helped out in someway. Thanks for reading. ^^