ID: B001FA1NDW-R202E7X94SLPRZ-A3S15I79DXMJRM
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Orange-Generation-Previous-Model
ReviewerID: A3S15I79DXMJRM
ReviewerName: Jessica R. Aguilar "~JA"
Date: November 25, 2008
Helpful: 9 of 23
Rating: 1.0
Title: Unhappy camper
Content:
In October of 2008 the Apple Company introduced yet another iPod into their ever expanding family.  This one is sthe fourth generation Nano. That's right folks, it is the fourth generation, which is a polite way of saying design, of an already established iPod music player. Why does the Apple Company feel that they needed to make a new Nano when, in fact, there are already three generations still out there?
The newest iPod has many new features. A new feature called "Genius" has been added. This is actually a pretty cool development. The Genius sifts through your music library and finds music that would go great with music that you are already listening too to form a new playlist. Another cool feature is that it allows for you to not only play games but feel like you are a part of the game. The games responds to your movements.
Coupled with these cool advances are some very arbitrary ones. Does it really matter that the newest Nano comes in nine different colors? Yes, it is cute, but the color doesn't stop the actual iPod from skipping or improve things that are wrong with it. Another feature on the Nano is that it allows you to view and go through your album artwork by pressing the center button. This seems interesting but how does this help you find the song you are looking for better than just going to the main menu? Also, this new iPod has a curved screen which is suppose to prevent scratches. The round screen invites glare; sound quality is only average.
Is it necessary for the Apple Company to come out with a new "generation" Nano iPod every year? The answer to that is no. If Apple could just make the Nano the correct way in the beginning they would not have to keep altering it each year and feeding it to the public as "new" and "innovative". In a culture that has become dependent on the latest technological advances Apple is merely feeding their infatuation. Obsession has overcome even the most moral of people. For example, a close friend of mine who does not buy into the need to run out and buy the latest new technology consistently buys the new generation Nanos. In the end she is never happy with her purchase.
The first generation Nano was priced at $199, the second generation was $199, the third generation, which cam out 11 months prior to the newest fourth generation, was $199. If you are similar to my friend, you also dished out $149. The total comes out to over $746 for pretty much the same item. A Nano iPod. On the other hand, I have had the same iPod classic since 2005 with no problems. This set me back $249 and it holds 30 GBs worth of information.
Now each year when the newest one comes out and it seems like a great deal to buy an iPod for less than $200, you can see that it is not.