ID: B0012S7GRY-R1O3Z6PVTPJNX6-A2A1XEP9I15P2S
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-nano-Generation-MODEL
ReviewerID: A2A1XEP9I15P2S
ReviewerName: Shoot Me "The Messenger"
Date: September 26, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: I'm very happy with this iPod!
Content:
I got this a couple of months ago and it's awesome.
Here's why: 
- Compact design is very portable
- Flash memory much more durable than a hard drive
- Video capability rocks!
- It does games too (to my surprise)
- Menu layout is intuitive
- Battery life is quite long
While the new 4th gen nanos offer a wider selection of beautiful and vibrant colors, I prefer the shape of the 3G where the screen is above the wheel and you don't have to tilt it to the side to view. Although maybe the 4G would grow on me if I owned it. 
The only place where there is room for improvement is: it should be easier to navigate to the clock. Yes, the clock shows up while music is playing and the screen is idle, but there are also times when I'm not using the iPod but I just want to glance at it to get the time and it would be nice if I could do this with less menu navigation. 
If you're looking for a good case for the 3rd gen nano, I recommend this:
Contour Design Showcase nano V3 (Clear w/ Black Accents)
Some tips:
If you ever experience problems with your iPod nano, first try resetting by holding the center button and menu button down simultaneously for a few seconds. If that doesn't work, try reinstalling the firmware (can be done in iTunes and you should have your media backed up before you do this. Also, best to have the latest version of iTunes). If still having problems, take it to an Apple Store and have it serviced (free if within warranty). Mine's been pretty reliable. There was one instance when a firmware update I did caused audio to periodically stop, but I then reinstalled the firmware from scratch and experienced no further problems. 
The battery life is good. I only charge it once or twice a week when I'm just listening to audio. If you are using it to watch video this will use up the battery much more quickly though. Still, you can get through a couple of movies without needing to recharge. 
Also, (as with any iPod) you can rip your DVDs into iPod-playable files using the free third-party app HandBrake. Very cool!
I love this thing and never leave home without it.