ID: B0015YUMEY-RTPWV6DQUJVDX-A27O4UW47XR40Z
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB076LL-17-inch-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: A27O4UW47XR40Z
ReviewerName: Tim H
Date: February 6, 2008
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Macbook Pro!
Content:
Macbook Pro:
I have just got a Macbook Pro to replace my iMac G5, and boy am I happy.
I have the Macbook Pro 15" matte display 2.2g with 2GB of RAM and a 160 GB hard-drive. I can't describe how happy I am to have a portable computer.
Design:
The first thing you will notice when you see the Macbook Pro is design. From the battery to the iSight camera there isn't one thing that is not completely thought out. Apple has always been known for their deign, but this is their best design so far. When you look at any other laptop brand there are ugly colors and a non uniform case. The Macbook Pro is completely silver with smooth edges and parallel lines. The Macbook Pro is beautiful.
Performance:
The Macbook Pro is the fastest laptop I have ever used. With and Intel Core 2 Duo processor this laptop flies. Whether I'm compressing a Movie in Final Cut Express or importing photos into iPhoto it is light years ahead of what my G5 would do. What would take my 3 minutes to do on my iMac takes my 1 minute to do on the Pro. It is extremely fast.
Leopard:
With the new operating system leopard this is a start of the art computer. My favorite features in Leopard are actually some of the small ones. I absolutely love Spaces. I have different spaces for Mail, Safari, iChat, and then one empty space for any other application, like Final Cut Express. I also like the RSS reader in Mail. Instead of going online and checking Safari, Mail will just tell me what RSS feeds are updated. iChat screen sharing is also amazing. Me friend Chandler and I often will control each other Macbook Pro just to see what each of us is doing. While the image quality isn't the best, that isn't expected with the 64 bit operating system streaming over the web. I haven't had a chance to try Time Machine yet, but when I do I will tell you about it. 
iLife 08:
iLife is has always been great, but with 08 they made it even better. I will explain my top feature in each application.
iPhoto: I really don't use iPhoto that much, but my favorite feature in iPhoto 08 is events. Now when you import your photos, they go into "event" lists. It is a great way to organize your photos. For instance I can put all of my Christmas pictures into an event and my band picture into another. 
iWeb: I can't just pick one feature from iWeb. I have two. The first is the ability to put Google Adsense directly into your website. Now you can make money directly from .Mac. My second favorite feature is the ability to upload using FTP to your own server. That is what I've been waiting for, and now I might use it to update my [...] website.
Garageband:
My favorite feature in Garageband is "Magic Garageband." WIth Magic Garageband you can select a style of music and then change instruments and sounds and make your own song off a preloaded one Apple has made for you. I can now make great songs, easily. The best parts is as always everything is royalty free. So you can put the songs into your own movies.
iMovie:
Sadly I think iMovie 08 is a downgrade form earlier versions, but I'll tell you about that later. My favorite feature in iMovie 08 is the direct upload to Youtube. You can click a button and then it will publish your movie to Youtube. Now, the reason I say that it is a downgrade is because they have stripped all of the main features out of it. Th effects, and timeline are all gone. Yes it is easier, but there are not a lot of good editing features. At least iMovie HD can co-exist on the same operating system, and Apple offers it as a free download. As for me, I got Final Cut Express and it is great.
Overall: 
I absolutely love my new Macbook Pro and the software that comes with it.
Tim Hermanson
Email me: funnyent@gmail.com