ID: B001D06BWC-RRMIYH1JMYWFS-AFDVYB7LC2OWN
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-60-Internet-Media-Tablet
ReviewerID: AFDVYB7LC2OWN
ReviewerName: Randal S. Maugans "Randy Maugans"
Date: February 14, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 1.0
Title: A dinosaur of a media player
Content:
Archos 5 250 GB Internet Media Tablet Archos 5 250 GB Internet Media Tablet
On paper (or screen)it LOOKED good. A 250 GB capacity media player! Face it, for true music lovers the tepid 4-32 GB capacities of current flash technology are underwhelming---great for songs to exercise to, but not the choice of a hard core music freak who mixes and matches music ongoing. Moreover, I have owned several iPods and I HATE Apple's "closed" approach to using the iPods, forcing one to use the appallingly bad iTunes software, encrypting one's music into an obscure file structure on the device, and generally limiting---even forbidding any choice of HOW content can be organized, moved, and deleted from the devices. Maybe the "smooth" experience of an Apple product is great for people who conform to Apple's dictates, but to me it feels like "digital fascism"!
The allure of Archos (in general) and the Archos 5, specifically, was the promise of a "drag and drop" interface, flexible options for play list creation, and the promises of a device based on LINUX. Themajor selling point, though, was inclusion of file formats forbidden on most mainstream media players (including Creative Zen, which I have owned four devices)---OGG, FLAC, and a plethora of video codecs---seemingly.
The reality of the Archos 5 250 GB is not just sadly lacking, but appallingly tragic. First, the device weighs a TON compared to smaller, lightweight devices like my current iPod Touch or Zen V. That said, it IS a hard disk-based player---and it is made out of ammunition-grade metal. Not "pocket friendly", but still manageable. The large size is, likewise, a function of the hefty 4.8" display---a nice size for video!
The reality is that this thing is a DINOSAUR! First it uses a resistive touchscreen technology of the type patented in the 1970s! It requires calibration and even then is far less than precise. The interface of the Archos 5 IMT (not to be confused with the NEW Archos 5 IMT which ships with Android)is stale and clunky. The menus look like the type used in some automotive media systems---large type, easy to read, but hardly the sleek feel of a modern device like the iPod Touch, or Zen. Navigation of media is hampered by a notable latency as result of the hard disk access times, and one must thread through a hierarchal folder structure, even for play lists. 
The device also suffers from the mandates of the EU to "protect hearing"---i.e.-it lacks any real volume using normal headsets of the type shipped with most media players. The sound, itself, even aided by an onboard graphical EQ, sound "flat" and lacking the dynamics and roll offs of "proper" hi fi audio. Sad, given the units ability to play lossless audio formats such as OGG and FLAC. Oh, and the iplementation of the LINUX OS on the device---well it is proprietary, locked down in the firmware ("for your protection")and arcane. Is it "hackable"? Only nominally---by absolute geeks.
Connecting to WiFi, while not a cakewalk, did work well provided one sets up a server device using Universal Plug and Play (UPNP)---a task beyond most average users, and fraught with security risks. So wireless media access, while possible, remains a dauntng task. The included Opera web browser and email client were---well, unusable. The tedium of trying to do any serious web tasks with the device's interface and wonky latency made it a non-starter. 
Worse---Archos makes you BUY "additional codecs" and hardware to play certain formats and to perform certain tasks such as recording audio/video and playback through external devices. The device includes built-in "nag screens" to entice you to "add" functionality that should have been part of the purchase price. As to "support" by Archos of the device---well, best bet is to find an online community and pray you can find a "guru" there. Tech support from Archos SUCKS!
There is more I could say, some positive: I WANTED to like this device. I made compromises with this device...I was willing to be a co-dependent for this device...BUT three weeks after purchase---without provocation---without so much as a hard knock---the touchscreen FAILED. UTTERLY! Failed! As I said, Archos support is abysmal, nee, non-existent. Fortunately...it failed quickly. Back in the box...RMA from Amazon..back it goes for a refund. (And truthfully, Amazon deserves to eat this unit---it IS a dinosaur---it is outdated, and they sold it based on price without regard to functionality).
The quest for a high capacity media device continues...Archos wil NEVER see another dollar/euro of my hard earned cash. This experience was akin to purchasing a Porsche Carera and getting a '58 Buick! Ipod killer? I think NOT. Caveat Emptor.