ID: B0016HHQKI-R2DVE0DWWZ8AFH-A1EZCAHO1KPLSB
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: DeLonghi-DC312T-14-Cup-Drip-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1EZCAHO1KPLSB
ReviewerName: K. Morrison "arizwldcat"
Date: September 12, 2009
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: AVOID...not so good == NOT 5 stars...Amazon won't let me change it.
Content:
We had this product for a month, and it died and was returned.  I can't change the star rating, but will leave my original review, amended at the end.
Over the past 5 years or so, we've been through several coffeemakers.  Cuisinart seems to have a corner on the market, but we had bad luck with their machine.  We thought we'd give this a try.  Since the less expensive model had better reviews than the more expensive one, we tried this one.  We wish this one had the chlorine filter, but as luck would have it, there is a space for it, and the filter from our Cuisinart (14 cup as well) fits perfectly, so there went that problem.  The timer is a bit clunky, as others have said, but generally, we leave the timer to go at the same time every day, so once it's set, no worries there.  The other issue is that the replacement carafe is hard to find.  Wish DeLonghi would make it easier to get.
With our old Cuisinart there were issues with the condensation forming inside the lid, and once you lifted the lid, water dripped out the back.  This one has a much more shallow lid, and though the condensation is still there, it's a lot less than with our Cuisinart.  We like the filter that is reusable, so no need to buy paper filters.  The aroma feature is lovely (allows the water to drip more slowly and create a richer cup of coffee).  And, strangely enough, even when we used the supposedly "slower" aroma feature, this pot STILL brews faster than our Cuisinart.  This is a definitely improvement over THAT machine, so I've given it 5 stars, perhaps 4 1/2 would be more accurate (particularly because of the replacement carafe issue) but we're very happy with this machine.
And about a MONTH later, the thing DIES.  Yup.  Dead.  As a doornail. Does NO ONE make a reliable coffeemaker????  (and I don't want to pay $300!)