ID: B001EU1H4I-R2YU36NM5EZXP1-A3ONZ9FUDGDZHB
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-SDC750-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3ONZ9FUDGDZHB
ReviewerName: S. McGirr
Date: February 1, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 2.0
Title: Great Concept, Dismal Execution
Content:
I grew up with a Spacesaver coffeemaker in my Grandmother's house and it was a great little workhorse. She must have had that thing for over 10 years, if not 20. However, there was a big difference - her water reservoir was shaped like a square carafe, with a handle, so you'd fill from sink into the reservoir, walk over the coffeemaker, pop it in, and it would do it's magic, ending up with delicious coffee in the carafe. In addition, the unit overall was a nice, cohesive 'square.'
This generation's design is a disaster. I guess they were trying to make it look like an under the counter DVD player or something. The water reservoir is like a flat pan with no handle, so you can neither see how much water you're loading (although the directions do say to pour the water into the coffee carafe first and THEN into the water reservoir, which seems counterintuitive to me) nor carry it without sloshing everywhere. In addition, 12 cups of water in a flat vessel with no handle is extremely awkward and easy to drop - which I did. A distance of no more than four inches, but it causes the corners of the reservoir to chip, so guess what - now it leaks steady streams of water. Every time I go to make a pot of coffee (and I am a serious coffee person), I have to put two cups beneath the reservoir to catch the runoff (est about 1/4 cup each time). This also means that I cannot preload and preset the machine to make coffee by the time I wake up - a MAJOR problem. 
I just called (you can't order parts on the web!!!) the company to order a water reservoir but they told me it's on backorder and they can ship one to me in 4-6 weeks for a 'discounted price' of $19.95. Never mind that they should be replacing it gratis to compensate for their crappy workmanship. 
If I hadn't already drilled this thing into my cabinets, I'd toss it out and invest in the new DeLonghi front-mount coffeemaker. 
PLEASE, Black & Decker, BRING BACK THE OLD DESIGN. This thing is a disaster!!!!!