ID: B0019Q4I02-R3RHYPE3757LMO-A3TDEEE6H9880M
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Kenmore-27515-Canister-Vacuum-Blue
ReviewerID: A3TDEEE6H9880M
ReviewerName: B. Pickett "jack of all trades; master of none"
Date: October 25, 2009
Helpful: 46 of 48
Rating: 3.0
Title: Worth the extra $$ for an Intuition (the other blue Kenmore)
Content:
I just wanted to clarify the differences in Kenmore Canister models for anyone who was as confused as I was :)
The blue Progressive (this model) is the lowest end of the Kenmore line.  Basic tools, nylon bristles.
Next is the black Progressive.  It adds an extendable wand and horsehair bristles.
Next is the yellow Progressive.  All of the above plus suction control and a light on the wand.
Next is the red (maroon) Intuition.  Back to nylon bristles and a non-extendable wand, but has the nice swivel head (worth it).
Last is the blue Intuition.  Best of the best.  Horsehair bristles, digital controls, popout hardwood floor cleaner, comes with the pet hair removal tool, extendable wand and probably some other things I'm forgetting.
If the difference in product number is just one digit, it just means one has a longer hose.
I think only the Intuitions have the full 360 degree swivel on the hose where it goes into the canister.  I haven't had any awkward bumps or problems pulling the canister behind me (and I've never used a canister before).  The Intuitions also have an automatic shut-off if it gets too hot (which was needed the first time I ran it -- didn't realize my old vacuum left SO much dirt behind.  I filled a bag with just the living/dining/hallway.)
Speaking of bags, Type C is the regular allergen control.  Type Q is the HEPA.  Both will fit.  And super easy to change (I've had a bagless for the last 7 years; this is actually easier).
My only complaint is that the cover for the attachments is a flimsy plastic.  I appreciate the weight reduction, however, and just know that I have to be gentle opening and closing it.