ID: B001XURPQI-R1FKEXQ2ZRF1VC-A3EOTXAOCPDXWY
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-T1i-Digital-Body-Only
ReviewerID: A3EOTXAOCPDXWY
ReviewerName: S. Condray "Eternal Student"
Date: February 23, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 4
Rating: 3.0
Title: not made for man-hands
Content:
Well, my friends warned me but I didn't listen. "That camera is too small for the over-sized paws you call hands." "I saw it at the store and it looks cheap and plasticky."
I read the reviews here and thought I made a great choice. Ok, so it arrived and was a bit cheap feeling. I was going on a trip and needed something light. This would be perfect!
About 4,000 pictures later my hands were aching. How on earth do people use this tiny little thing?! I guess if I were a woman with tiny hands it would be great: light and easy to use. But I can palm a basketball! This thing was causing me early arthritis as I tried to manipulate my hands around it. I never had this problem with the Canon point-and-shoot pocket cams I've used, but something about this camera is horrible for my hands.
As to the camera's features, I found them usable and an INCREDIBLE deal for this price. I did have a dud camera with a bunch of stuck pixels or something (a red spot in every photo) but Canon was great at offering to repair it. 
video works great for what most of us do anyway (sound was not so good though), the sensor size is large enough to produce some clean shots given good lighting and even some usable shots in low light (I'm not a fan of high-iso photos no matter what the manufacturer says their software smoothing is doing). 
Who should buy this? A mom (or other person with small hands... these do tend to be women) who wants a good camera to take pictures at soccer games or family vacations but doesn't want something so expensive it becomes a target for theft. With the release of the t2i, this should drop in price and make it a really great deal. It would also be an awesome gift for a kid who is starting to be interested in photography. I would have LOVED it as a teenager.
I ended up returning it rather than having it repaired by Canon, and then proceeded to drop a lot more money on the Canon 7D, which fits in my hands nicely (especially with the battery grip) and has a better low-light sensor.