ID: B0011NH5J4-R8MNIC2PZLV43-A34VRVI4CSI5RQ
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VGN-AR790U-17-inch-Processor-Ultimate
ReviewerID: A34VRVI4CSI5RQ
ReviewerName: Matthew K. Morgan
Date: July 22, 2008
Helpful: 15 of 15
Rating: 4.0
Title: Very good desktop replacement system
Content:
I decided to purchase a new laptop after my old laptop was taken over by the family for a variety of tasks. I was mostly happy with the system I had, a nice HP Pavilion system with a decent feature set, but considering that it is 2-3 years old and does not run everything I want to run anymore I wanted to make my upgrade to a new system worthwhile. In researching I found this particular system and I pounced on it, as I found it at a steal of a price. It is not perfect, but there is an awful lot in this notebook.
My very first notebook was a Sony Vaio, so I imagined that this would be familiar territory. I was greatly mistaken, as things have changed dramatically since then, mostly for the better.
First off, this is a fast system with lots of expansion room. This is very important to me because I do a little bit of everything - I do some gaming, I write software, I write short stories, I hang out online. I am not considered a power user in that regard so an AlienWare ultra-high-powered expensive gaming rig is not really what I need, but I don't need an entry-level system that is good for little more than checking email either. My needs are for a well-rounded machine that can do most things well. This notebook fits that need.
I am especially impressed with the bright, large screen. I do occasionally toss a movie DVD into the system and treat myself to a private showing of whatever movie I have chosen, and all of that screen real estate makes for an enjoyable experience.
As for DVDs... With Blu-ray built into this system, watching new media movies is not a concern. That's a very nice plus.
I like the fact that this system has two individual hard drives instead of one large one, as I want to create a dual-boot system and not wipe out the whole thing. I was unaware of this when I purchased the system, thinking I had a unified drive, though that was an oversight - the labeling and documentation are clear.
The system comes with 3 GB RAM, expandable to 4. Up to this point things seem to be comfortable in that amount of room.
My first task was to strip off the trial software I don't want or need, which includes MS Office 2007, Webroot SpySweeper and Norton 360. Some people will appreciate these applications but for me they are in the way and clutter the hard drive with unneeded stuff. If these applications were full-release apps with more than 30-90 days of use, I likely would keep them all but in my case I already have licensed software to use that meet the same needs.
The documentation states that there is a firewire port, a VGA port and an S-Video port, and it took searching the web for a manual with technical diagrams to reveal that these are hidden on the right side, under a cover. Nothing that came with the system says where to find those ports, and the cover that conceals these ports blends in well enough to truly hide them - I did not find them without help.
Even more concerning to me is the number and placement of the USB ports. There is one on the back, and two on the right side close to the front edge. I work with an external mouse but I use the built-in keyboard, and I am right-handed. So, if I plug anything at all into those two front edge USB ports, the cords interfere with my mouse use. The solution, then, is to plug a 4-port hub in the back and then plug everything in there.
The built-in speakers are all right, though nothing special. If you want better speakers plug them in and all is well. That said, the built-ins are quite acceptable for most use. You would not want to use them for listening to symphony music, of course, but they're just fine for gaming and general music.
I am very pleased with the graphics. My litmus test for gaming is Neverwinter Nights 1 & 2, and both of these play quite smoothly. I have not loaded up Unreal Tournament 3 yet - that's next - but it should have no difficulty at all with that game.
I did run into one problem that required a call to Sony technical support. Because Sony does not include recovery media with their systems, it is up to the owner to create them and Sony makes it easy with included utilities. There are two options for creating the media - 1 dual-layer DVD or 2 single-layer DVDs. I chose the single dual-layer and after an hour of writing and grinding, the DVD ejected and the system said the creation failed. Assuming it was the target medium, I tried again with the same result. I called Sony thinking I needed to request the recovery DVDs and the technician told me that the single-layer DVD creation would work but that a glitch with this specific model prevents the dual-layer media creation from working. When I used two single-layer DVDs, everything created without a hitch.
This brings up a good point. Some places provide horrible service with operators that no one can understand. I got through in a reasonable amount of time (it was 5am but I still had a brief wait) and I got a very pleasant fellow who was very easy to understand (he did have and accent, though I could not place it) and was very helpful.
This is my desktop replacement system. It does everything I need it to do, it works well and it has a good feature set. It is certainly not perfect, but even at full price it is a good deal for what you get. It is NOT a top-of-the-line gaming rig but it's not marketed as such. If you want a good well-rounded machine, give this one some consideration.