ID: B001MS6NOG-RVKSXF38YX8N7-A3DVKMZ0RWFRN1
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VGN-FW373J-16-4-Inch-Processor-Blu-ray
ReviewerID: A3DVKMZ0RWFRN1
ReviewerName: G. Gulik "Riding the bleeding edge."
Date: June 5, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Not bad for the money, but not perfect either
Content:
I bought this laptop to replace an older laptop that was just too slow for the applications I wanted to run.  I wanted a faster processor, more memory capacity, bigger hard drive and a big screen.
The pros:
The screen is beautiful, it would be nice if it was lit by LEDs to be thinner and for better battery life.  I don't mind tiny fonts at all as long as they are crisp and readable and that they are.  The PC is fast.  Vista was initially very slow but I upgraded to Windows Server 2008 and that felt considerably faster.  Once RAM prices come down a bit more I'll upgrade to 8G.
The laptop is fairly thin and relatively light weight considering the screen size.
The HDMI port is also nice.
The cons:
Why are all the USB ports in the wrong place?  They really should be further back and maybe on both sides.  I use an external mouse when at my desk and the ports are right where I like my mouse to be.  
I use an external monitor to extend my desktop and I had a lot of issues with blue screens every couple days.  Sony tech support is completely useless.  I returned the first laptop for a new one only to find the new one had the same blue screen crashes in both Vista and Windows Server.  I later found that it's a known Vista issue that affects a lot of people.  I got a Toshiba Dynadock-U to add a 2nd video card that solved the issues acceptably.  
The battery life is  barely acceptable.
My co-workers laughed at me that I went through so much trouble with the video that I probably should have just bought a Mac that "just worked" and if I did factor in the hours I put in "making this one work" I probably could have justified the MacBook Pro.
I've had two other Sony Vaio notebooks in the past that were great but this one was clearly an attempt to appeal to people that would otherwise buy a MacBook.  After this experience I think next time I'm in the market I'll just buy the real thing.