ID: B001LUYT8W-RPTDF36F1PIZ1-AMPOJ0D1ISDS0
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: iheater-IH-1500B-Quartz-Infrared-Portable
ReviewerID: AMPOJ0D1ISDS0
ReviewerName: K. Noel
Date: October 14, 2009
Helpful: 85 of 92
Rating: 5.0
Title: Not a Miracle - But a great heater.
Content:
The reasoning behind the title I chose is due to the amount of people I hear thinking these are supposed to absolutely work miracles. More explaining to this below.
After Reading some of the other posts, I had to add my 2 cents to the pot.
The iHeaters advertised on Amazon right now are the older (Last Year) models. I bought my iHeater last year (2008) in December. I have to say that last years model was great for the heat, but was a little noisy. I saw the new model and called about it and they said that the noise issue was taken care on the newer model due to they put sealed bearings on the fans instead of the open bearings that were on the older model. I decided to sell my older model and bought the new model for this year and man was I impressed. It runs ultra quiet. The one post I read about the hair dryer freaked me out a little as that is completely different. These heaters don't take the humidity out of the air (A hair dryer will) and the iHeater uses that to it's advantage. Think about it this way, moisture in the air is always moving (Whether you can feel it or not) and if the moisture is heated up, then the heat is distributed more evenly and would take less to actually heat the space needed.
I used the older model last year to heat my 900 square ft apartment. Beforehand I was using central heat (Electric Heat Pump) and my electric bill was running between $120-$130 per month. My electric bill after the iHeater was utilized never reached over $60 for the rest of the winter and I never turn my central heat back on. I set the iHeater to the Medium Room setting and the thermostat on 70 Degrees and my apartment never got below 68 Degrees and that was on some nights that the temp outside was in the teens here in Kentucky last winter.
My father owns 3 of these to heat his 2500 square ft (not very well insulated) older 2 story home and 3 more to heat his 3000 sq ft (not very well insulated) kitchen cabinet showroom. He claims that he saves at least $300 a month by using these instead of his heat pumps. We are both happy with ours because they are saving us money, but I could see how it wouldn't do so well for some others. Some of it has to do with conditions of the use. I will say that by far, these will not take the place of insulation or if there easy ways for the heat to escape the location intended for use. Other factors people should take into consideration... Multiple Stories, Tall Ceilings, Cold Concrete Floors, Older Windows, Amount of Doorways the Heat has to travel through, Temperature Outside, etc. If the heat is escaping with your normal heating source, the heat from this heater will escape also. That is where the "Not a Miracle" in the title I chose for this review came into play. I rate this item at 5 stars because it is doing exactly what I wanted it to do. Heat my apartment and save me money. Whether it will do this for you requires a little common sense and not really expecting a miracle. When a heater says it's rated for 1000 sq ft or 1500 sq ft, that is based on the most optimal conditions. When have you heard of any company trying to sell their product do ratings on their products in the worst possible conditions? 
I suggest that if anyone who reads this does purchase a heater or multiple heaters, to figure some overkill just in case of that extra cold unexpected day, or just to make sure to save the optimum amount of money as possible. Keep in mind that if one of these are running full blast constantly every day to barely keep up, then that is constant electricity being pulled, but if you are running 2 or 3 of them spaced out among the location, then the heat will be spread out more evenly and they will run alot less altogether than the one that would be running constantly (non-stop) all day and all night.
I personally believe these things are the best things since sliced bread, but I used common sense when I set my expectations for the product. If you think that you can purchase one of these to heat 1500 sq ft and the rooms are very chopped up and/or you don't have insulation above the ceiling or under the crawlspace and/or in some outer walls, but not in others, then you really setting yourself up for disapoint or just want to buy one to be mad about it and prove the person that told you about them wrong.
Also, the one review I read on here said that they asked about a return policy by e-mail and never got a response from TOP TEN IMPORTS. But yet, she still bought it anyway. First off, if you e-mail someone about a product you are wanting to purchase and they don't respond, then why would you still buy from them after you already see what their customer service is like. There are other places that sale these products, find one with the customer service and courtesy you expect, then buy it from there. In my opinion, that person chose their own fate with this heater and not being able to return it due to not getting answers before she bought.
Hope some people find this helpful.