ID: B0013FJBX8-R296B1VMD0A6G2-A2XAPOZQQ2WCEN
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB470LL-15-4-Inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: A2XAPOZQQ2WCEN
ReviewerName: J. Buck
Date: December 22, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: My 1st Mac...Love it!
Content:
After looking and researching for a long time I decided to switch to mac. This review is for the Macbook Pro 2.4 GHz and 2GB RAM. This is my first mac and I have had very little experience with mac before this purchase. I have had this computer for a few weeks now so I feel like I can provide an accurate review.
Design: Absolutely beautiful! It seems like they really thought everything out. The magnetic latch and magnetic power cord are genius and very nice features. The computer does seem very sturdy and well built.
Screen: I know many complaints are about the screen and it is indeed reflective. HOWEVER, I have yet to have a problem with reflection and the screen is vibrant, I love it.
Hinge: I have read complaints on the hinge being too weak. I have not experienced this with mine and would say the resistance is about perfect. I can tip the computer at a very steep angle without the screen falling.
Trackpad: This was one feature I was a little concerned about. I did experience a few problems with the trackpad but the update from apple fixed that. I can honestly say this is probably one of the greatest features of the machine. It took about 5 minutes to get used to the gestures and not having a dedicated button. Now, I feel like all other machines should have this trackpad and I really miss it when I am using other machines.
Keyboard: This is a personal preference but I love the "Chicklet" style keys and it feels great. The backlight is nice to have also.
Performance: This machine is fast! I have the Adobe CS4 Design premium loaded on the machine and it handles it with no problem. All other programs open and run amazingly fast. I have yet to have any problems with performance. Also, the machine is very quiet and stays cool. Battery life seems to be fine but I have not really put it to the test.
Compatibility: I have yet to experience any compatibility issues. I do have Windows XP running through VMware Fusion 2.0 and it works pretty good (Separate review for this product). All my electronics and printers just worked...sure is nice.
Value: So far I am very happy with my purchase. The machine runs great, looks great, and I am happy that I made the switch. I do not miss my PC at all. You will pay a premium for a Mac but it is a premium product. If you want a excellent computer and are thinking about this machine, I would highly recommend purchasing one.
I was debating between the Macbook and the Macbook Pro and I am glad I went with the Pro. The extra screen size is very nice to have and the machine is not all that big.