ID: B001FA21RE-RF7XW9WDJA5U4-AOVROBZ8BNTP7
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Nescafe-KP210650-Single-Serve-Coffee-Machine
ReviewerID: AOVROBZ8BNTP7
ReviewerName: S. Potter
Date: April 27, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: A Remarkable Machine
Content:
Coffee is part of who I am.  With my burr grinder, french press, trusty Bialetti, frother, and two Keurigs I thought I was set.  Then came the Dolce Gusto.  The DG is not a substitute for any of my other coffee appliances.  However, what it does, it does well.  
And what it does is provide a serving of rich espresso with a wonderful crema or a delicious latte macchiato with next to no effort, almost no mess, and in an amazingly short amount of time.  Of course, there are several other coffee bar drinks the DG makes just as well.  When I first observed the frothy, hot milk dispense into the included cup, I knew the DG was something unique and special.
Looks wise, the DG looks about as much like an espresso/cappuccino machine as a Keurig looks like a french press.  No matter, it takes up very little counter space and is easy to move out of the way or to stow when not in use.  It is solidly constructed, as well.  Even though it is made mainly of plastic it should provide years of use as long as one does not drop it or push it off the counter.  
Cleaning the DG is easy.  The reservoir is a snap to lift off and replace, easy to carry and rinses clean.  The actual business portion of the machine, where the coffee goes, is easy to slide in and out and also rinses clean in short order.  
On the room for improvement side is the fact the machine still operates after the reservoir is empty.  It would be nice if it shut off automatically when it's out of water.  A more precise way of measuring the amount of liquid dispensed, would also be appreciated.  As it is, one simply guesstimates when to stop the flow.  Of course, the provided cups help make estimating easier.
All in all, the Dolce Gusto is fun, easy, and makes great coffee drinks, as advertised.