ID: B0015L451I-R2K8NQWAMQCLFM-A3E2HV87IG2RBX
Category: MP3Players
Product: SanDisk-Sansa-Fuze-Video-Player
ReviewerID: A3E2HV87IG2RBX
ReviewerName: C. A. Walters
Date: March 2, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 1.0
Title: The problems with this product read like my grocery list!
Content:
Personally, I very much enjoyed this product at first.  It fit my budget, was big enough though it didn't have a huge amount of space, and played with good quality.
But now that I've had it for about a year, there is no end to the problems that keep cropping up.
First of all, the Fuze is NOT Mac/Windows compatible.  What I mean by that is; say your friend has a Mac and some mp3s you like.  So you plug in the Fuze, they download, and you can listen to them, yay.  But when you plug it back into your Windows and open up your music folder, all the songs you just downloaded don't show up.  The same is true vice versa.  If you ever get tired of those songs, you have to go manually delete them one by one with the little scroller on the player itself, which is a VERY arduous process, believe me.  And you better hope to God you never have to switch operating systems while you're using the Fuze.
In fact, if you own a Mac, don't even bother with this product.  Sometimes it won't even show up as being plugged in, a driver does not exist for the Mac, and the user disc is one of those halfsize 3" ones that cannot be inserted, lest you destroy the disc drive.
Also, the audiobook feature on the Fuze is very strange.  In some books I download it will scatter the files, or play them together, but out of order.  Which is extremely confusing if you've never heard the book before and don't realize what's happening.  I have tried many things to fix this, with only moderate success.
And NOW I'm having space issues!  The Fuze will tell me I cannot load a song due to lack of space when I just deleted a whole audiobook that was 20x the size of the song, so I know for a fact there is plenty of room!
I'm really beginning to hate this product.
I wish I'd checked the internet for reviews and complaints before I'd bought the Sansa Fuze.  It would've saved me time, stress, and (in the long run) probably money.