ID: B00126SV6G-RKSK5WG854BZ7-A3N8JRO062812Z
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Portable-Media-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A3N8JRO062812Z
ReviewerName: Abigail Frelier "Abby"
Date: August 17, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Cool
Content:
Wow, I bought this to upgrade from my 4 GB iPod nano (2gen) I love it! It works perfectly (so far). Hopefully reading this you know about the promoted features but here are some things I would've loved to know before I bought it. 
It has this awesome advanced shuffle feature. You start playing something then simply navigate to any category and you can add it to the list of what to listen too. (like adding a single artist or cd or song) If you have it on shuffle you can listen to any selection of music shuffled together. You can save this list as a playlist as well. This is a feature I use constantly. 
Also, I read a lot of complaints about the SD card slot. I find it useful, if only for videos or pictures. I was on vacation and my memory card on my camera was full, I simply put the SD card into my player, imported all the pictures and then cleared it, so I would be free to take more pictures.
This player also has some handy little features that are well integrated. I can change the play mode right from the song menu (it's impossibly annoying on the iPod). The My Shortcut button is also immensely useful, I have it set to go to Date and Time. Navigating through long lists is so much easier than even the brilliant design of the iPod. I have 2010 songs on here and I can find them twice as quick as on the iPod.  My last little feature is that you can zoom in on a portion of a picture and set that portion as your wallpaper. (very useful for moving the center of the picture so it isn't covered by the icons on the main menu)
I'm not going to mention the sound quality because even though it is great, it depends heavily on the headphones (I have some Sony's that work well).
The software is also good, fast, effective and very easy to use. One thing I did notice is that it cut off the end of some information, like my artists, songs or album information. It's a little weird but easily fixed. This only happened about five times and is such a minor bug I almost didn't mention it.
I will warn you, it's thicker than it looks in that isometric view they have on the page. Also the placement of the headphone jack is a bit annoying when trying to operate one handed. I will give the designers credit that it was the only place they could've put it without it being even more annoying.
Overall, an excellent mp3 player that I would (and have) highly reccommed to anyone who will listen.  It has a very well thought out design and it works perfectly.