ID: B0019Q8AGK-R2O63O5HN6Y6S2-A2FP0ILEEP0MPU
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Kenmore-28015-Canister-Vacuum-Intuition
ReviewerID: A2FP0ILEEP0MPU
ReviewerName: A Mom
Date: February 23, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Not a disappointment!
Content:
Just bought this vacuum today after my Kenmore of 9 years stopped working.  I tried it out when I got home and am very pleased!  We have a combination of berber carpet, medium length carpet, and hardwood/linoleum.  The lady at the store told me this was the "top of the line for Kenmore canisters."  I asked what the difference was between "top of the line" and the next level down.  This one has the detachable vacuum-head for barefloors, longer cord, longer hose and a swivel head.
I love that the cord is extra long (30 feet).  It reaches further than my old vacuum.  When I turned on the vacuum, it almost felt like a self-propelled vacuum.  On the berber and hardwood, it was very easy to push/pull.  I've read another review where they said it didn't push so well on the carpet.  On our medium carpet, I put it on low-carpet setting only because I like to think it's cleaning deeper.  It did require more effort to push it like that.  On the medium setting, it was easy to push/pull.  I really like the swivel head.  It goes under and around furniture better that way.  Switching the carpet level is all controlled at the feet so it's easy to use.  Also switching from carpet to barefloor is controlled at the top so that's easy too.  It's easy to pop out the barefloor vacuum head and much lighter to push too (with the barefloor vacuum).
I also like that the exhaust part is located on the sides instead of the back of the vacuum.  This way when vacuuming stairs and you sit the vacuum up on its back on a step, you don't have to worry about covering the exhaust.  This comes with a "stair vacuum" attachment.  
I thought the suction was very good and I love the dirt sensor (located on the hand portion as opposed to the vacuum head like the old one).  
For some possible cons:  The storage part is made of "lighter" (cheap) plastic.  My old one was too and it really wasn't a problem as long as you don't treat it roughly.  If it were heavier, it would make the vacuum heavier.  This is a heavier vacuum compared with some others I tried in the store.  But it's the same as my old one so I'm used to it.  24 pounds I think is what was listed.  (If you're a mom it's not a problem since we're used to lifting kids.)  This is on 3 wheels as opposed to 4 like my old vacuum.  It swivels better when pulling it so if you yank too hard it tends to bump into things.  I'll just have to get used to that and adjust how hard I pull the vacuum. This does have rubber bumpers all around for people like me who yank it into furniture and walls.
Overall, I recommend this vacuum!