ID: B001I902HS-R3B975Q8VY05H0-A3963R7EPE3A7E
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Panasonic-MC-CG885-OptiFlow-Lightweight-Canister
ReviewerID: A3963R7EPE3A7E
ReviewerName: John N. Schear "cxxi121"
Date: December 20, 2008
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: What a VAC
Content:
In the late 80s we bought a Panasonic cannister vacuum and were delighted with it.  It DID the job and did it well.  Time forced it to the vacuum gravy yard and it was replaced with one vac after another.  We tried several different brands including uprights and cannisters.  We even bought a Panasonic upright and it was a piece of junque that the manufacturer would not stand behind.  Now we have the MC-CG885 and after using it today it is my favorite now.
I ordered this at 3:01 p.m. on 12-18-08.  It arrived at 11:00 a.m. on 12-20-08.  Talk about fast but you have to realize you are dealing with Amazon or as some call it:  Amazing!  It arrived in perfect condition and in a few minutes it was hooked up and running at full blast.  
When we previously had cleaned the floors with the vac the dogs went crazy trying to bite the head.  There is not a vac in this house without teeth marks.  It is their way of exercising their frustrations.  BUT, when we started this one, they made no sound.  They made no attempt to attack.  This vac is QUIET.  It is at least 1/2 the sound level as any other that we have and best of all it works WELL.  
In my straightforward reasoning there is only one major reason for buying a vacuum and that is to pick up things on the floor.  This one does just that and does it without effort.  There is no dust flying around either such as you might get with other vacs. 
Because the cleaning head has such a favorable profile cleaning under items is so much better.  Most vacs have a high profile and will clean up to the item but this one goes under the item and that inch or so make the floor look so much better.  
While an adjustable pipe instead of the 2 fixed pipes would have been better they are at least metal and should last longer than the normal plastic ones usually supplied with most vacs.
Two features that really make this one a step above most cannisters are the longer hose and the swivel.  You can put the main body of the vac in one location and vac all around and it sure makes it easier.  You won't find yourself moving the body every time you need to move to another location.  The cord could be longer but that would require another gauge of wire and thereby adding to the cost and probably not worth the difference.  Making two cord changes is no big thing.  The auto winder works well.  I think the red plastic clip on the back of the head could break easy since it will get more use than most other similar parts on the vac.  I will update any changes in opinion after using this for a month or so but for now it is a winner of the first order.
12-31-08 update.
After using the vac right much (That's southern for lots) I thought a new bag would be in order.  Guess what.  Finding one anywhere including Panasonic became a labor of love and frustration.  Finally today at about 3 p.m. Panasonic emailed me with a website that has the bags at $10 each.  So when the time comes be prepared to do a little work or if I do not go off on a tangent I'll include the url for the website.