ID: B0012Q94AI-R2L7K9HKS1QV10-A2UWPPU5GZLMQZ
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-14-6MP-Digital-Camera-Reduction
ReviewerID: A2UWPPU5GZLMQZ
ReviewerName: Michael McKee "mystic cowboy"
Date: April 8, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best HDR and landscape camera in its class
Content:
There's been a lot of positive reviews about this camera listing its strengths and very minor weaknesses. What I haven't seen mentioned is how good this camera is for landscape and high dynamic range (HDR) photography. 
First I'll mention that the K20D has a depth of field preview. I know it's a feature that a lot of people don't use but it quite helpful if you're serious about shooting landscapes.
Next, there is no camera at anywhere near the current price of the K20D that has an equivalent exposure bracketing feature. Some like the Nikon D40 and D60 completely lack one, though they are still good cameras. Others like the Canon X series models offer 3 exposures with at most 1 stop of compensation. It's the same with Olympus and Sony. Again, these are all good cameras but if you are looking to do HDR work please consider the Pentax K20d. 
You get either 3 or 5 exposures of bracketing with up to 2 stops compensation per exposure. That makes HDR photos very easy to do. You don't have to fiddle with the camera between exposures and can be sure that you haven't moved your camera. The remote control works from either the front or back of the camera, which isn't the case with all makes. Again, that makes taking multiple exposures with the exact same focus easy. You can also set the self-timer at 2 seconds. The camera will not wait for 2 seconds then snap off quick multiple shots. It waits the full 2 seconds between each exposure, which gives the camera time to stop vibrating. That ensures spot on focus for multiple exposures.
Add in the weather/dust sealing and extremely solid build and you have a great landscape camera that also happens to be a good all-round performer. The sensor is excellent and gives as good an excellent image especially if you shoot in raw format. If you don't you might look at a less expensive model as you won't be gaining full advantage of what the camera offers. That's not just with this camera but any more capable DSLR.
Another advantage of buying Pentax, Olympus or Sony cameras is the built in shake reduction. That makes the purchase of additional lenses much less expensive. Shake reduction or image stabilization can add an appreciable amount to lens price. Since you're buying an interchangeable lens camera and the eventual cost of lenses can far outstrip the cost of the body that can add up to significant savings. And Pentax lenses, which are excellent are generally less expensive than those of other camera manufacturers. The same can be said of accessories like external flashes, even battery chargers.
A number of reviewers have mentioned that the camera has a slow burst speed. Kind of. To really get an increase of burst speed, we're talking at least double the speed, to really make a difference you will have to spend a whole lot more. An increase of half a frame a second honestly doesn't make a real world difference. 
It is true that the camera auto-focuses a bit slowly in low light with the kit lens. In low light I use the 50mm 1.4 lens and experience good results, so that may be as much the lens as the camera.