ID: B001FA1NG4-R1EODXDW6TQJL-A1SRI13D6GR0X8
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Yellow-Generation-Previous-Model
ReviewerID: A1SRI13D6GR0X8
ReviewerName: a Midwest reviewer
Date: October 12, 2008
Helpful: 14 of 18
Rating: 5.0
Title: Get album artwork into iTunes before you sync your iPod
Content:
I have over 11 GB of music on iTunes and I'm a runner, so the 16GB iPod nano is the iPod I've been waiting for. I had a couple hard drive failures in the past ten years which gave me another reason to hold out for the flash-based iPod nanos to increase their capacity and come down in price. The price is right (under $200) and I really like the simple sleek minimalist design. I bought mine through Amazon at the end of September 2008 and do not have any trouble with the click wheel being sluggish. Maybe this was only an issue with a few of the first ones to come out and has already been fixed? 
I already use iTunes (since 2002) to send music from my Mac to my stereo receiver. I had to download version 8.0 of iTunes for the Mac (I had 7 and version 8 is required to sync with the iPod nano 4G). After that I hooked up my iPod to my MacBook, went for a run, and when I came back my entire 11GB music collection had been automatically transferred to the iPod. Sweet! There is an option to transfer only checked songs but I haven't used this yet (I will if space becomes an issue when I begin transferring some photos, too).
This is my first iPod and I'm super impressed by the way most features were very intuitive and easy to figure out. No wonder iPod tramples all other MP3 players. The only things I had to go online to figure out were how to completely reformat my iPod (something which shouldn't be TOO easy) and how to shuffle playlists rather than shuffle my entire music collection. To shuffle a playlist, first choose "Settings", "Shuffle" and change to "Songs." Then go to Playlists and press the play button when you are on the name of the playlist you want, BEFORE opening it to the screen where see specific songs. 
When you add new music to iTunes, my advice is get any album artwork BEFORE you sync your iPod. All my music in iTunes was transferred from CDs and I did not have album artwork either on iTunes or my iPod the first time I synced the two. The command "Get Album Artwork" requires you to register at the iTunes store (the artwork is free, and they are high-quality images). I signed up on the iTunes store, ran the command "Get Album Artwork" and about three-fourths of my albums got matching artwork in a matter of minutes. A small number of these got an incorrect match. I fixed these and tracked most of the other missing album artwork for several dozen remaining albums in 2-3 hours on either Wikipedia, Amazon or Google images (the image quality varies a great deal in all three places). A few times I had to go to MySpace music or a band's own website. Once you find the album art, in iTunes simply get "info" on a song with the blank note image, click the "Artwork" tab, then drag the album art from your browser window into the iTunes artwork window. After the first time iTunes info defaults to Artwork and the process takes only a few mouse clicks and movements each time. Syncing my iPod again still did not transfer the new artwork. I think the artwork is saved as part of the song file, and apparently the iPod doesn't re-save the songs (now with artwork included) if they have been transferred over already. I chose the restore command (complete reformat of iPod memory) which downloaded and ran in ten minutes or so, and this time when it synced I got all the album artwork with the songs. Transfer speed from iTunes on my MacBook to my iPod nano was 23 minutes for 11.5 GB = 2 minutes per GB. So even a complete reformat and re-transfer of nearly the entire contents of the iPod nano was no big hassle. (If you only need artwork added or changed for a few albums, I expect you could just delete those selected songs and sync again, instead of a reformat of the entire iPod)
I was amazed at how few hours it took me to get everything set up and running just the way I wanted it. Keep in mind that I used iTunes for the past six years (to play music at home and burn CDs for my car or portable CD/MP3 player) and already had all my playlists set up in advance.