ID: B00108IHKQ-R25FXTIX8FCY5F-A6T1RHMQ9NSE4
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VGN-CR320E-14-1-inch-Processor-Premium
ReviewerID: A6T1RHMQ9NSE4
ReviewerName: Amy E. Santos "High-Maintenance"
Date: April 20, 2008
Helpful: 15 of 18
Rating: 5.0
Title: THE computer of MY DREAMS!
Content:
I can't tell you how happy I was about three weeks ago when I got this Gorgeous Pink Sony Vaio as a gift!  Let's just put aside that my favorite color is PINK and this is just the most beautiful pearly pink color I have ever seen. It's like an accessory. Which is the main reason you buy a colored laptop isn't it? 
This is a critical part of my work.  I'm a paralegal and I needed somthing light but sturdy to take back and forth with me to work. I went with the 14.1" screen because it is big enough to see exactly what I need. Bright and colorful as well. I don't use the computer for much but work and documents, so I'm not sure how it stacks up with things like game play, etc.  But I can tell you that it is quick (maybe not the fastest laptop ever) enough for the everyday consumer! This computer also comes in a variety of high gloss colors at great prices!
It took me all of two minutes to have the Vaio up and running wirelessly online! (and I'm definitely NOT a computer savvy person) But it's very easy to set-up. The instructions are clear and effortless! It's all that I need and more.  It's quick, runs my necessary programs, music interface and Microsoft Office Professional without a problem.  I've owned other Vaios and have loved them all as well.  *This one is my very favorite hands down. 
It has a lot of room on the hard drive, is super quick, gorgeous color and user friendly.  I'm not the most computer literate person, but this comptuter makes it easy to understand.
It's compact and light. Perfect Keyboard, I absolutely love it! I also bought the Sony case for protection and it matches perfectly and keeps the computer padded, protected and easy to carry around!
There are a ton of programs preinstalled on it though. Some I found useful and some I don't need at all.  The virus program is great, along with Microsoft Professional and a few others.  Mostly I love that it has everything I need on it and more in one tiny, compact, sturdy, and gorgeous machine.  What I see so far is wonderful and I know that I'll have many years to come with this notebook!  
For me, I couldn't ask for more!  You'll have to decide what you need it for, but if you're looking for a machine that does what most everyone needs it for in a compact, light, yet sturdy form, I can't see why you wouldn't love this user-friendly product.  Sony is a name I've grown to know and love and would buy their products again and again!
Perfect for students in both high school and college and for adults that use it as a second computer or one to travel with. Not only does it download and play my music, but it also burns cd/dvds, which is a plus! I hope this has been of some help in your decision making, I know I don't know a whole lot about "tech talk", but I do use it every day and couldn't be without it!
ENJOY! I am!  I've gotten a ton of compliments on this notebook! It's certianly a conversation piece! A Quality Computer At A Quantity Price! This is THE computer of my dreams!