ID: B0019KOFEC-R2CE0M40V9LS0S-A38RX1OHCVW1VT
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Eureka-3684F-Lover-Mighty-Mite
ReviewerID: A38RX1OHCVW1VT
ReviewerName: Richard Rankin
Date: April 15, 2009
Helpful: 73 of 73
Rating: 3.0
Title: Good value
Content:
The Mighty Mite is a decent vacuum cleaner, especially for the money.  I've been through 3 vacuums in 2 years, and I know junk when I see it now.  And, for the most part, the Mighty Mite isn't junk.
Pros:  It is very lightweight, has good reach with the telescoping pole, decent suction, and the pet hair attachment seems to work fine on my sofa and rugs.  The HEPA filter is a definite plus and my hope is that the quantity of house dust will be seriously lowered.  It is easy to move, but could use a longer cord than 20 ft.
Cons: The instructions don't even MENTION the pet hair attachment!   The only references are on the box it comes in.  The suction is adjusted by a rotating ring on the handle, exactly where you hand goes.  So, if you accidentally move it to a more closed position while your hand is there, your skin gets sucked in with it. All the attachments do NOT go on the canister.  There is provision for one small attachment and the crevice tool onboard.  Everything else has to go elsewhere.  Plus there is no easy way to deal with the hoses and telescoping rod.  They don't fit together any special way and won't stand up.  The power cord winds up underneath the vacuum and the plug should clip on to the cord.  But, the clip on the plug doesn't actually fit over the cord.  It is too small and too tight and makes indentations deeply into the cord, so you can't really safely use that 'feature'.
Sometimes, you have to wonder if the manufacturer ever even tried out the machine themselves.  For example, the reason this is lightweight is that it uses incredible flimsy plastic hose.  I suspect you could poke a finger through it if you tried hard enough.  And, the canister itself is also plastic.  That isn't theoretically bad, but what happens is, in a static-y environment, the hair and dust you are trying to get rid of is attracted to the hose and canister!  So, you end up with a cleaner house and a vacuum completely covered in hairs and dust.  That 'feature' isn't mentioned on the box...
Overall, I like this, in spite of all the negatives.  Longevity is a bit of concern for the tools and hose, but it has suction, the disposable bag makes for a cleaner house, it is very easy to carry up and down the stairs and has a long enough reach to reach everywhere in my old house.  I'm going to keep it...