ID: B001FSKDWQ-R3AVUDHO0MDL74-A3IXXWSTNWCS4G
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Panasonic-DMC-G1-Digital-3-5-5-6-Red
ReviewerID: A3IXXWSTNWCS4G
ReviewerName: David A. Morehead
Date: February 18, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Lots of great features-It does things a DSLR can't do!!
Content:
The main reason I bought this camera was the flip out screen. I used to own a Sony F828 and I loved how you could effortlessly take ground and over-the-head shots with it. Eventually I ended up selling it to buy a Canon DSLR. I have had several Canon DSLRs since then. I love my Canons but I have always missed the ability to shoot from awkward angles and still be able to see the image while I am composing and focusing the shot. Ever since I got this camera I have been trying all sorts of different angles. It makes these types of shots so easy it begs for you to experiment. Once again I am getting shots that would be impossible to get with the DSLR that has a fixed screen. This capability alone is worth the price of the camera. I picked up the Panasonic 20mm 1.7 pancake lens and I love how small this setup is. It looks like a toy so when I am shooting people on the street they never look scared/intimidated. It is much easier to go unnoticed and you can get some very natural looking candids this way. I am still learning all the camera features so it will be a while before I get some great shots with it. But, so far, I have gotten some shots that I am really happy with and I have only had the camera for a week. 
Likes
Looks like a toy so you can take pics in places that don't allow big camera with long lenses-doesn't intimidate your subjects.  
Full manual control if you need it.
Small-allows you to be very discrete
Flip out screen-you can try just about any angle you can think of and still be able to see your shot on the back screen. No more guessing like you do with an DSLR. 
On bright days, you can preview your shots inside the viewfinder.
Intelligent auto-fixes darks and lights so you get a shot that comes close to what the human eye sees.
Movable focus point to anywhere on the screen or in the viewfinder
You can lock focus on a moving subject (Dog, Baby, etc,,,) and the camera will continue to focus on that subject without you having to hold down the shutter button.
Face recognition ensures your pics are properly focused and exposed for the faces.
Kit lens has a very useful focal length and it is stabilized.
Ability to see the affect of the shutter speed. (push a button to see how the shutter speed will make running water look or see how a moving car or train will look)
Push a button to see how your depth of field.
The back screen automatically shuts off when you put your eye to the viewfinder.
You can turn the back screen around to have it facing in. This protects it when you are not using it.
You have all your normal white balance settings plus you get two custom white balance setting. It is very easy to set the white balance manually. Just point the camera at something white and press a button. You can also fine tune a white balance by using the back screen and adjusting a setting in the camera. It is easy to match the screen with what you are seeing live.
Lots of screen modes for people that are not comfortable yet with manual controls. 
You can display different grids in the viewfinder on the back screen for perfect alignment. One of them divides the screen in 9 segments so you can easily use the rule of thirds. Another one divides the screen in 16 squares and has two diagonal lines that meet at the center. This makes it easy to see the exact center of the screen.
Movable histogram
Manual focus assist-turn the manual focus ring and view finder zooms in to show you how precise your focus is. This is very useful. DSRLs can only do this in live view.
Auto bracket can be set to 7 shots (-2 to + 2) Very handy for HDR. It makes this process much easier. 
Controls are easy to learn/use.
Film modes (give you lot of different effects) If you shoot raw, you can try different settings after you have taken your photos.
Fast auto focus
ISO 3200 not good for color, but may work well for B&W images.
You can use other 4/3 lenses with an adapter.  
Dislikes
Proprietary cable to transfer images to your computer-not standard usb 2 cable.
Software that comes with it is a bit bizarre. I am going to buy Lightroom. 
Above ISO 800-noisy-loss of detail
Flip out screen would be even better with 920,000. But, it is still better than my 40d!
Noisy shutter sound (when using the 20mm 1.7)
Can't buy just the body. You have to get the 14-45 kit lens. I would have preferred the 14-140mm lens. But, from what I have read the kit lens is sharper so it will be useful.
In closing, I can't stress this enough, the flipout screen REALLY helps to get shots that are almost impossible get with a DSLR. You can easily take pics of kids, dogs, lizards at eye level. Also, you effortlessly shoot from below flowers that are near to the ground. And, you can get over the head shots at concerts! No more having the people in front of you blocking your path to the stage.
Overall, I am very happy with my Panasonic G1. It is very light, has good image quality and has enough features to keep this gadget freak happy!