ID: B001G8Y2WW-R2B1SZ7LW71MBG-A1XRV6DND75B2D
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Cuisinart-DGB-650BC-Thermal-Automatic-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A1XRV6DND75B2D
ReviewerName: Steweygatz
Date: December 26, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 2.0
Title: Poor Design - Messy Cleanup
Content:
Because we are all different with different expectations, I'd like to describe myself as a person who loves a good cup of coffee, but I am not a coffee snob, or someone who thumbs their nose at fast food or donut shop coffees.  I appreciate a good design just as much as I will denounce a poor design or an item.  
I'm a big proponent of "you get what you pay for".  I bought my grind and brew at Bed Bath and Beyond with a 20% coupon. The maker also had a $30 rebate, so I thought it was a good enough deal to spend the $130 or so and get a grinder/maker combo.  I want to say final cost was around $85 or so.  
For this review, I will not talk about taste, because we all use different beans and like different strengths/flavors.
The Good:  The maker looks good and has nice stainless/plastic finishes. It is easy to use (note I did not say easy to clean), controls are simple.  The thermal carafe is awesome, coffee stays hot and drinkable for several hours.  Pouring water into the tank is easy, no spills/splashing/small holes to pour in to.  All parts are simple to remove for washing.  You dont have to use the grinder; you can skip the step and just put preground coffee in the filter.  
The Bad:  Messy.  
The 1st issue is that the chute, which carries the ground coffee from the grinder to the filter is not properly sealed or mated to the cover over the filter.  The result is some grinds/residue end up on top of the filter cover, which you end up needing to clean after each use.  
The 2nd issue is that the poor design of this maker allows steam condensation to enter the grinding chamber causing all the fine grinds in the chamber (which didn't make their way down the chute) to coagulate leaving "gunk" inside the chamber cylinder. The result is that you have to remove, wash and THOROUGHLY DRY the 2-piece chamber and chute before grinding again.  If not completely dry, new grinds will stick to the insides.
The 3rd issue is that you end up with "gunk" residue under the chamber in the housing where the grinding mechanism is.  The only explanation I have for that is that the really fine grinds must get airborne and get carried by the steam into the housing itself. This is also attributed to the fact that the chute is not sealed to the filter cover.  You don't have to clean this every time, but after a while, the 'gunk' gets caked on and you have to get in the housing with your finger and a wet paper towel to scrub out the tight corners/spaces.
The problem overall is that this maker fails to separate the grinding from the brewing, resulting in an overly messy clean up.  With all the steam and condensation, it is just annoying that you have to clean out the grinder/chute every single time.  And since this is only a 10 cup maker, if you are making multiple pots (say if you have company), you are doing this multiple times
After realizing this issue, I looked on Amazon to see if there was a grinder that did separate the grinding from the brewing.  There is a grinder/brewer made by Capresso that seems to accomplish this with a grinder that is offset and not directly over the pot/steam.  It's more expensive, but with that, I may "get what I pay for".