ID: B0013FLTNS-R2UA95HNHX4CYK-AURQSAIDAIT17
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB134LL-15-4-inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: AURQSAIDAIT17
ReviewerName: Ryan
Date: December 11, 2008
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Get it while you can
Content:
Amazon: 
Superb.  Bought the MacBook pro on Monday, received it on Thursday using free shipping.  The rebate is VERY easy to complete.  Took me about a minute to complete.  Seriously.  All is done online and you can check the status as well.
Why I got this model:  
Spent a lot of time researching whether to get the early 2008 model or the late 2008 model.  Went with early 2008 for several reasons:
1.) Price - saved hundreds versus the new Pros (even after all rebates from Amazon)
2.) Matte screen - I got the MacBook Pro primarily for photography and didn't want glare causing me to keep bobbing my head when editing images.  I get enough headaches as it is.  Also didn't want it to limit where I work.  This may not be a big deal for everyone, but it was the main reason I even started to look at the older models.
3.) More for the money - got the 2.5ghz, 512mb vram version for less money than the new 2.4ghz 256mb vram version.  Also has more L2 cache for whatever reason.  A speed test I came across on MacSales shows that this version of the MBP is actually faster than the new ones in about every category.  You can find the comparison in their memory sales section.
4.) Perceived value - Just about three months ago, this model would have gone for the cost of the high end late 08 version brand new from Apple.  Now that the new version is out, I got this older version for significantly less than that.  Feels like a steal.
MacBook Pro itself: 
As many people have written, I too am coming from the PC world over to the Mac world.  I have made the transition and, so far, am loving it.  I've always bought HP computers in the past and have purchased an Intel Core 2 Duo machine from HP...this computer breezes through everything way faster than any HP machine I've bought.  This is the first computer I've ever used that can actually keep up with me!  The build quality is solid.  It really is making working on a computer fun.  In fact, I wouldn't be writing this review if it weren't for the fact that I'm having fun just typing on the keyboard.  I've read some previous reviews saying that this laptop gets really hot...that hasn't been my experience.  I've been working on it for a solid 2 hours and it's very comfortable on my lap.  Yes, it's a little warm, but just warm.  Not hot.  Granted, I haven't been playing any games so if the warmth comes from the GPU, then I suppose I haven't given it a full test in that regard.  It's completely silent so far (again, something the GPU might change).
I'm very pleased with this purchase.  I did A LOT of research on which model to buy, so there was no doubt in my mind that I was making the right decision.  I like the unibody case on the new Pros, but nothing else really makes me want to go that route.  
If you're considering this model, buy it while you can.  I'm absolutely thrilled with my purchase so far.