ID: B001F50UHW-R1XBQVCZBMXUR4-A3LDPF5FMB782Z
Category: MP3Players
Product: Sony-Walkman-Video-MP3-Player
ReviewerID: A3LDPF5FMB782Z
ReviewerName: Alan  Houston "alanhouston-texas"
Date: September 29, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great Sound and Good Price
Content:
My goal was to be able to carry my favorite songs with me without having to charge a battery every day.  The Sony provides superb sound quality in a tiny and attractive device that will play for 40 to 45 hours before the battery needs charging.  When I tested the battery at a "loud" volume of "20" with some added bass EQ, the blinking warning to recharge the battery came on after 41 hours of continuous playing.  At a moderate volume of "15", without added bass boost, 45 hours of play is possible before charging.  
The battery recharges in about two to three hours, and only requires a full four hour charge when the battery has been run down to the bottom.  Sony estimates that the battery will provide about 500 charges before the playing time drops below 20 hours per charge, so if you charge your Sony twice a week, the battery should last about five years.
As with every music player, the standard earbuds are mediocre.  They are not comfortable, and have little bass.  Switching to the $30 Sony earbuds with silicone "buds" improved bass response, volume and comfort.  With the V-Moda earbuds, the bass is deep and solid.  The new edition of "Abbey Road" sounds amazing with the Sony and V-Moda buds...the bass guitar and bass drum sound "live".
The FM radio gets about half of the stations in my area, except when I am downtown, surrounded by large buildings.  The downtown reception is poor.  However, after the Sony "locks in" a station, the sound quality is excellent.  When I travel, programming the Sony for the local stations takes just a few seconds.
The Sony does not play as loudly as the typical Ipod.  To get to a moderately loud level requires getting into the "17 to 20" range.  If you plug the Sony into a typical docking unit, the Sony needs to be turned up to near its maximum output to get the volume that an Ipod would obtain at a medium output level.  With high quality ear buds, such as the V-Moda, the Sony will play as loudly as a sensible person would prefer, but it is the wrong MP3 player to pair with a Klipch or Bose docking unit to play at "Party" sound levels.
The ideal person for the Sony is someone who intends to listen through high quality earphones, wants premium quality sound, and likes the idea of being able to listen to music for about 40 to 45 hours without having to recharge the battery.