ID: B001E532ZA-R2WRBAJ1N3GMQ0-A2PXP8UMMDAGPM
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Bosch-TAS4511UC-Tassimo-Single-Serve-Coffee
ReviewerID: A2PXP8UMMDAGPM
ReviewerName: JB "betterfed"
Date: September 13, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Perfect device for the Single Elderly Coffee Lover!
Content:
I have to say this item has impressed me more than any other kitchen appliance I have purchased in the last fifteen years. 
Like all new "concepts", you tend to raise your eyebrows a bit about a new method of preparing an age old food preparation, whether it be a blender, chopper, or in this case the traditional coffee maker. Frankly, my only real concern was the future availability of the Tassimo Coffee "T-discs" as without them, the system becomes useless of course. 
But after my father passed away two years ago, my mom began to drink "instant coffee" after being a brewed coffee devotee for over 65 years. Brewing 8 cups of traditionally made coffee for a single elderly person just seemed to be a big waste of time, as well as unused coffee. She seemed to be, a perfect candidate for this unique individual cup coffee brewer. Having tried this item once in an upscale Resort Hotel on a business trip, I was convinced to give it a try as an answer to my Mom's particular situation. 
The coffee was absolutely WONDERFUL! She has fell in love with Starbucks Columbian "pods", but I also purchased the Verona, Cappucino, as well as the Expresso Pods and will continue to purchase new blends as they beome available. As my tea drinking Sister lives nearby and visits often, I also purchased the Twinings Chai Latte as well as the Earl Grey Tea Pods so she could enjoy a hot beverage with our Mom while they are together. 
Although I traditionally grind & brew my own Gevalia Coffee Beans here at home in a 8 cup brewer, I decided to purchase an additional Bosch Tassimo maker for my home as well; as the availability of Expresso and Cappuccino brews is something I can now enjoy as I desire. Now, my Sister's best friend who lost her husband recently has tried it at my Mom's home, and they purchased her a new Bosch Tassimo maker for her home for her recent birthday gift. 
Incredibly easy to operate, my 87 year old mother has no problem in brewing the wonderfully fresh hot brewed coffee she had enjoyed for over 65 years. 
I want to thank Amazon.com for once again searching out yet another unique and quality made kitchen appliance that has become a big winner for our entire family of coffee and tea lovers. I just received an Email from Amazon notifying me of a new shipment of Tassimo T-discs that has arrived at their central warehouse which is just another way this fine Internet Products purveyor does an outstanding job for their regular customers. 
THANK YOU AMAZON!!!