ID: B0017PLEVQ-R3JY7I4G97MKNW-A3FIT9V4F33WLI
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-Aquarius-Canister-Vacuum-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A3FIT9V4F33WLI
ReviewerName: Lynn "LA film fan"
Date: February 18, 2008
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Awesome machine; will probably outlast most marriages
Content:
After becoming extremely frustrated at buying "disposable" vacuums year after year and tired of putting cheap junk in the landfills, it came down to buying this machine or a Dyson.  After doing pretty intensive research, we settled on this machine from a local vacuum shop that repairs.  The reason we didn't go with the Dyson is as follows:
1)  Finding a place to repair a Dyson is very very difficult.  We did not want to have to send it back and pay through the nose (minimum of 131. to change a belt on the 15 and 17 models)    There are three shops within 10 mile of my Los Angeles area house that can repair a Miele should it need it.  Plus, poor reviews from a significant number of friends that loved it at first, then a few years out had serious issues after medium residential use. (Also, we did talk to two repair persons who absolutely hate the machines and want nothing to do with them)
2) A canister is much easier to control, and very light.  The  airflow measurement CFM on a Dyson is around 90.  The CFM on this machine is 140; so almost 50 percent more.  Of course, the price reflects the difference.
3) The build quality is superior on the Miele, the parts lock together beautifully, and it's very easy to use.  The Dyson seems cheaply put together, and is awkward to move around.  My house is mostly hardwood and area carpets, so much easier to use the canister.
4) I have three cats and a dog.  (2 with long hair.)  After a pass with my friends Dyson which I used to try it out, it did pick up but was difficult on bare wood and I have to make several passes.  The Miele did it first time, every time.
5)  The noise level on the Dyson is very loud.  It is almost silent on the Miele in comparison.  My cat didn't even flinch when I used it the first time.  The difference in performance was like a Mercedes compared to a Yugo.  (shame I can't afford a real Mercedes!)  German engineering at it's finest in this machine.
All and all, it's hard to justify spending this kind of money on a vacuum cleaner.  However, I have talked with other Miele owners and they have had very good luck with this machine.  It is very well built and the powerhead will immediately shut down if something becomes caught in the roller bar, avoiding and overheating situation.
As others have mentioned, it also cleans the air.  My sinuses have benefitted greatly; and it must have something to do with this machine.
Also, the review for this machine is the same as the Capricorn.  They have the same insides, the controls are just different.  The controls on the Aquarius are on the machine body and are operated with your foot, very simple.  The model one notch below has a rotary dial that you have to bend over to operate, the Capricorn has them in the handle.  (and what a nice handle I must add!).  So, the cost goes up in increments of 100 depending on the controls.
I am very pleased, and figure the price will be made up on constant replacements even if the machine only lasts 10 years.  Although it is plastic, it is ABS plastic, the wand is metal, and it is very rugged.  I miss the old metal machines my parents had, but alas, only time will tell if you can get 30 or more years out of Miele like the old Electrolux company ones.  These machines are designed to last 20 or more years.