ID: B001FA1NDC-R1Y28GZ64ISK42-A1LFUSBL92NJ4K
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Green-Generation-Previous-Model
ReviewerID: A1LFUSBL92NJ4K
ReviewerName: FaiTHfuL2HiM5522 "~Book LoveR~"
Date: April 15, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: UpGrade!
Content:
Okay, so I upgraded to this ipod nano 4th gen, after previously injuring, then misplacing my beloved 2nd gen nano.  Now that I've have this ipod for a few weeks, I feel that it is now appropriate for me to give it a sound, honest review.
Here are my comments:
The video addition is always a plus.  At first, I was worried that the screen would be too small for me to enjoy a quality video, but it's wonderful.  The screen is made of glass, like a television, and it is also rounded so it is very easy to enjoy music videos as well as movies on this device.  
The 8gb memory works for me as well.  Right now, I have three movies, about five music videos, a few video podcasts that are about an hour in length plus Chris Rock's latest comedy special.  Plus I have an additional 2gb worth of music on it, and I have 1gb of remaining memory.  If this is not enough for you, then you should think about upgrading to the 16gb nano or getting an ipod classic.
The player itself is super slim, and the colors are great.  (I finally decided on pink, after great deliberation, because I know that my brothers would never "borrow" my pink nano.)  I was so happy when apple decided return to the rectangular nano shape rather than that wide squared shape they experimented with in the 3rd gen.  It fits so well in my hand.
A lot of people complained about the cover flow, but I guess Apple added some updates so that it could now be turned off, which works for me.
The new games are awesome!  There is this maze game that functions with the accelerometer.  A Brick-like game (but better) called "Vortex," and Solitaire.  But with Solitaire, you have the option of changing the background and card designs which is kinda fun.
You have control over the brightness level of your display.  
Someone said in their review that the click wheel on this device is not as responsive, and they're right.  Also the center button on the ipod is not grooved to accomodate the shape of your finger as it was on my 2nd gen.  Not a big deal, but it just feels a little different.
The shake to shuffle doesn't really work that well...But it could be turned off.
This nano is very visual and focuses a lot on album art.  So if you don't have any album art associated with your music on itunes, the display may be a little bland for you...or maybe not.  But you'll have to deal with that same generic music note on your display for every song.  Not a big deal for me, since I have my album art, but may be a problem for others.
I have a Monster FM transmitter in my car that used to charge and play my old 2nd gen ipod.  It plays my music on this ipod, but it no longer charges it.  However, my old Apple charger from my 2nd gen nano charges this device. Apple is cracking down on these third party companies, and wants its consumers to depend solely on expensive Apple branded products.  Not cool.  
Though the battery lasts up to 24 hrs, watching movies and playing those games will drain your battery faster.  I think you could watch 2 full length standard movies in a row before your battery dies.
All in all, if you already have a functioning 1st, 2nd, or 3rd gen ipod nano, there is not need to upgrade unless you really feel like you'll die if you don't.  Because, at the end of the day, it's all about listening to music.  But if you are really in need of an ipod because your old one broke and got lost...get this one, cause I think it's great!