ID: B001KBZ972-R2MUCQLTSKSRMC-AK2K7PKVD9GG6
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Mr-Coffee-MRX35-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: AK2K7PKVD9GG6
ReviewerName: Gary Burke "Radio Free Colorado  D.J."
Date: August 1, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: The finest coffee maker Mr. Coffee has ever made....period !
Content:
I began drinking coffee when I was 9 years old in the morning before I went to school each day, to be more alert in class and also because I enjoy the entire morning coffee drinking experience.
Back in 1975 I remember our family had a white Mr. Coffee square basket-type coffee maker which was easy to clean, maintain and made very good tasting coffee.
Recently when my Proctor Silex coffee maker finally died I decided to find the best Mr. Coffee model I could find that would bring back to me the quality of coffee I enjoyed before as a youth. I was not disappointed when I purchased the Mr. Coffee MRX35 Heritage Series Coffee Maker.
This Mr. Coffee model is by far the best coffee maker I have owned. I have owned DeLonghi, Cuisinart, Proctor Silex and Krups models before. I feel for the money you spend for the Mr. Coffee MRX35 you get a really good set of features you would actually use (instead of "bells and whistles") and the Mr. Coffee MRX35 does make a fine pot of coffee to boot.
The most surprising feature to me is that when it's time to clean or "decalcify" the MRX35 a red indicator light will come on to inform you. I used 20 ounces of ordinary white 5% distilled vinegar (per Mr. Coffee's MRX35 instruction manual) and indeed all the minerals accumulated from using ordinary tap water with the MRX35 were completely removed - I could see the mineral deposits caught in the paper filter after the MRX35's cleaning cycle was finished.
As others have mentioned here the Mr. Coffee MRX35 is an attractive unit and is not too large in size. It fits nicely under my kitchen cabinets with 4" to spare.
I like the MRX35's end of brewing beeping annunciator feature as well. You can disable the end of brewing beeping sound if desired.
The Mr. Coffee MRX35 has a warming plate temperature adjustment feature as a sliding control which can be moved towards the left for less hot coffee or to the right for more hot. If you move the MRX35's sliding temperature control all the way to the right you will have very hot coffee.
There is a selection for automatic shutoff of the Mr. Coffee's MRX35's warming plate at 2 hours or 4 hours. This is a nice feature and also eliminates the worry of whether you turned off the coffee maker or not.
The Mr. Coffee MRX35 has a delayed-brew timer you can set for a particular time you'd like the MRX35 to make your coffee.
If you are using tap water to make your coffee the Mr. Coffee Water Filter Discs do seem to improve the taste of the coffee. I purchase from Amazon.com the Mr. Coffee Water Filter Replacement Discs 6 pack so I feel the filter discs are worth the money. The Mr. Coffee MRX35 instruction manual says to expect each water filter disc to be effective for about 30 days of use.
My only complaints are that the Mr. Coffee MRX35 has an "analog style" LCD clock on it (like the kind on a non-digital wrist watch) rather than the more common digital numeric LED or LCD digit display. As others have said the "analog style" clock display on the MRX35 is not as easy to read as a LED or LCD digital style clock. I also think the so-called permanent filter included with the MRX35 should have been a gold-tone metal mesh type and not a white polyester plastic mesh type. Based on 6 months of daily use I feel that the plastic polyester filter included with the MRX35 will not last as long as I'd like it to. I clean the Mr. Coffee MRX35's plastic filter daily with dish soap and water and the plastic filter is still stained a medium-dark brown and now has a wavy appearance to it rather than being flat on all four sides as it was when the plastic filter was new.
The alternative to using the plastic filter included with the Mr. Coffee MRX35 is to use paper filters (it says in the included instruction manual you can do that) but you have to make sure that when you slide the square plastic basket filter holder into the MRX35 that the edges of the paper filter inside the filter holder have remained upright and have not collapsed, otherwise you will end up with coffee grounds in your coffee or worse yet some of the water will overspill onto your countertop.
The actual color of the MRX35 is very dark brown, almost black in appearance. Note that Amazon.com also carries the Mr. Coffee MRX36 Coffee Maker in Red.
Lastly, there is a strip of whitish-blue LED's located in a row on the back of the Mr. Coffee MRX35 that can be turned on or off as "accent lighting" for a dramatic effect. Instead of that feature I would have preferred a "Bright or Dim" setting for the MRX35's front LCD display backlighting. The LCD display backlight on the front of the Mr. Coffee MRX35 is bright enough that at night the light spills over from my kitchen into my adjoining living room area 20 feet away. Consider this could be an issue if you have a nearby television you watch at night in a dark or dimly lit room like I do (a Sony Bravia XBR KDL-46XBR6 46-Inch 1080p 120Hz LCD HDTV).
Other than the two minor complaints I mentioned (the unusual plastic filter and the lack of a "Bright/Dim" LCD display adjustment), I am very satisfied with my purchase of the MRX35 Heritage Series Coffee Maker in Brown. The MRX35 makes very good coffee, is easy to clean, easy to maintain and performs as expected. I recommend the purchase of the Mr. Coffee MRX35.