ID: B001D8S9E2-RSRXDOBDUOD4K-A3UZ5BRIV5ILFA
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB466LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A3UZ5BRIV5ILFA
ReviewerName: Antonio Alvendia "Cipher Garage"
Date: February 19, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: My Macbook Changed My Life
Content:
I decided to switch from PC to Mac as my New Year's Resolution. I can't believe I had been resisting it for so long - what was I thinking? My 13 inch aluminum Macbook has definitely improved my life! 
I'm a commercial/editorial photographer, and manage content on a high traffic automotive blog site ([...]) for a living. This Macbook shuts down & wakes up in about 1 second, whereas I'd have to constantly wait for my PC to shut down/start up. This is a big deal to me, because since I multitask like crazy, I'm constantly running late for things and ALWAYS need to leave immediately for meetings, or get last minute info (like mapquest directions, etc) real quickly before I leave. 
I love how my aluminum Macbook is small, thin, lightweight, stylish, and surprisingly rugged due to the aluminum exterior. I travel ALOT (last year I took an average of 2-3 trips per month) across the USA and internationally, and let me tell you... having a capable, light laptop is a huge deal. Especially one that can do all the things my Macbook can. Photo and video editing, managing playlists, syncing to my iphone, creating webpages on iweb, blah blah you name it.
I love that my Mac uses SPACES (it's like having 4 desktops, and keeps things uncluttered.) It lets me use Firefox on desktop #1 (I manage the site through Firefox), Email/addressbook on desktop #2, Photoshop and plugins on desktop #3, and I can have iTunes blaring out my favorite music, while I'm looking through the folders on my Terabyte external HD in Finder (like Windows Explorer) on desktop #4. Spaces keeps my desktop and my mind organized; I love it. I can run my 80000 tabs in different browsers, and I can keep work related tabs/windows separate from random browsing stuff like Facebook, Myspace, Twitter, Yelp, Amazon.com, etc. Perfect if you have ADD like me. 
Try THAT on a PC. Even a new one. It would explode. I have 2 Toshiba Satellite laptops on my desk, and my Macbook. The smaller, thinner, more efficient Macbook is what I use for most of my web/internet/photoshop tasks... and my POS Toshibas are now only used for dumb, mundane tasks like copying photos off my CF cards to an external drive, checking MS Outlook email, and FTPing files from my external HD to our server. Hopefully, I can dupe someone into buying my Toshibas cheap on Craigslist, and I'll just buy another Mac Mini and simplify my life further. 
BUY THAT MACBOOK NOW! You'll be glad you did.