ID: B001B4PM52-R8E1TU5AH0A62-A3E5OY3YLZMOA9
Category: MP3Players
Product: Samsung-Slim-Portable-Media-Player
ReviewerID: A3E5OY3YLZMOA9
ReviewerName: Keith A. Jones "Sonic Jones... I'm Kind Of A ...
Date: October 19, 2008
Helpful: 14 of 15
Rating: 4.0
Title: Definitely Great For The Price
Content:
Really this product deserves about a 4.5 cause it is definitely worth the price. The Samsung S3 is so so cool in so many ways. I basically wanted to buy an ipod because I have an Apple computer. I am young but have never had or worked an mp3 player so I had no idea about any of this stuff. It sounds crazy that I'm so late but I am just now getting tired of rotating my hundreds of Cd's in and out of my old Sony Walkman. When I looked up the prices for the ipod's I let them go pretty quick. 
OK so on to the S3, this is very compact and fits well in your pocket. So if you're a girl with tight jeans, this is the MP3 for you because it is very slim. It holds about 1000 songs and one of the coolest features is that it comes with recordable FM radio. If you hear something on the radio that you want but don't want to pay for and download then just record it. Only problem with this feature is that the radio reception will not always be clear and clean. It also comes with a feature I didn't know about until I bought it, it has some cool games already inside it. 
The S3 also has amazing sound quality, these are great ear buds. I put my Sony headphones into it and they have nothing on those ear buds so be sure to take care of them. They have great bass and treble but they don't hurt your ears. It doesn't come with a wall charger which kind of sucks cause if you're somewhere and it dies then you are out of luck if you do not have your computer. You can charge it with the USB cord it comes with but unfortunately that can take a minute. 
Really that's the only problem I have with the S3. The battery power really isn't 25 hours worth but more like 8 to 9 hours maybe but definitely not 25 hours. The picture is amazing and the colors are bright and vibrant but the battery life is bad. For something that holds about 1000 songs, video, Fm radio, and games it is a pretty good price.