ID: B001ENOZY4-R3A94S4MVCESZL-A27EKZDRJ14M1D
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D90-Digital-18-105mm-3-5-5-6G
ReviewerID: A27EKZDRJ14M1D
ReviewerName: Rudi
Date: April 5, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 1.0
Title: TOO many error messages
Content:
I absolutely LOVED my Nikon D90. Unfortunately after having the same exact problems with two brand-new D90s within 4 short months, I opted to buy a Cannon this go-around. I originally "shopped around" and did my research for approximately 12 months before getting the D90. I read reviews, asked friends who also had digital SLR cameras their likes/dislikes, etc. Overwhelmingly the evidence pointed to the Nikon D90. I had a decent camera already, and for the price of the D90 I wanted to make sure that I was getting the "perfect" camera because I knew it would be a camera that I would have for a very long time.
I purchased the camera in October 2009. LOVED IT IMMEDIATELY. However, after about 4-5 weeks of average use, I started getting error codes. I read the manual three different times trying to figure out what to do.
First the top display would read & blink "err" - which is stated as a camera malfunction.
Second and third times display said F - - which menas no lens attached. (There was one of course)
The only way to remove the error messags and to get the camera working again is to remove and replace the battery. Even this didn't always work.
So, I returned the camera to BestBuy (I had purchased the Black Tie warranty) and they replaced my camera with a BRAND NEW d90.
Fortunately the camera worked wonderfully throughout the Christmas holidays and I was ecstatic that I did not have any error codes. However, when we had an extrememly rare "snow day" in January and I wanted to get some pictures with my kids, the camera just completely froze up. I had read about some issues with the SD card, so I switched out the high quality SD card and with a regular SD card that came out of my husband's little point-and-shoot camera. This seemd to work temporarily, but ultimately I kept getting the same error codes & messages that I got from the first camera.
Needless to say, I was extremely disappointed. Especially since a friend has the exact same camera and has not had a single problem or error code. I was so disheartened with the idea of having to return yet again a second Nikon d90.
My husband actually went to BestBuy to do the return and the staff there were wonderful. He was able to do an even exchange and picked out the Cannon Rebel EOS t2i. So far it takes great pictures, but I just LOVED the Nikon.
I pains me to say that I would not recommend this camera, unless of course you purchase it from a store such as BestBuy that has a great return policy and/or warranty