ID: B001WAKSCW-R2YQHFEOXRIOGB-A31Q7NE0NP3IH4
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Panasonic-DMC-GH1-12-1MP-Thirds-Interchangeable
ReviewerID: A31Q7NE0NP3IH4
ReviewerName: Richard "The Lion Heart"
Date: December 29, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best hybird in the price point
Content:
For those who argue that image isn't as good as dslr is mainly due to the kit lens that is definite below average in low light, other than that it shine most other area.
The image quality can be excellent as good as DSLR, the camera definite over expose like canon dslr, you might need to adjust a bit or do post processing. the 720p avchd can produce very high quality smooth hd video that easily beat quality of those hd program. is about 14-15mb bit rate show in ps3. 
I original interest going for Canon 7d, but try it and felt is way too heavy for me and i am worry if drop damage might much greater. gh1 body itself isn't that cost compare to 7d.  since the lens aleady sold for $850 My friend has t1i, he was suprise that my camera outperform him in many situation not just video but image too. his camera produce far more noise pictures and video. The camera share many similar setting as Panasonic FZ-35 which i am very famaliar with. panasonic is seriously score homerun this year in eletronics, from tv now to camera they really stand out.
I try several software for video edit with avchd, power director is by far the easiest and fastest to convert and can direct upload to youtube in 720p save me about 5 times the actual size.
If you had ps3 avchd is not problem, you can view and even copy to your ps3, i use ps3 slideshow to play my image and usse some mp3 make very nice experience.
Pro:
Light Weight (with the kit lens is about same weight as Canon 7D body)
Flip Screen 
100% EVF 
Pretty fast fps at non flash photos
flash is the same as DSLR
Swap lens (might need adapter)
Silent video focus
60 seconds expose which most DSLR don't had.
Accurate whiter meter even indoor.
External mic
best internal mic in hybird camera
nice slideshow with music function and hdmi output
1080/60i can do 24p with software and 720/60p very smooth hd record
AVCHD and Mov format option (ACVHD use 3 times less space than Mov)
Excellent battery life, my friend T1i battery went dead while I still has 2 bar left use about similar time.
Excellent menu that is very well inform, there's pdf too for easy search.
Can achieve similar depth of field as DSLR
Very fast focus at object
Cons:
Kit Lens does poorly in indoor situation you would need tripod for longer expose time.
EVF view suffer if the lens don't do well in low light
You can't use most third party battery
Camera menu lack function definition.
Could had include better software. 
Some micro 3/4 lens too pricey and often out of stock.
Lack of markening should had include cheaper option such as with other lower cost lens or body only to make more public appearing.