ID: B001FSKDWQ-RB6ZMNU4KG9QN-A2YQO4UA092QE4
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Panasonic-DMC-G1-Digital-3-5-5-6-Red
ReviewerID: A2YQO4UA092QE4
ReviewerName: James L. Tarbutton "JT-Button"
Date: February 26, 2009
Helpful: 11 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: G1 is Awesome - from an Amateur's Perspective
Content:
I think this camera is simply amazing!  I bought it for primarily backpacking and hiking, as well as canoeing and general photography.  The menus are relatively simple to use.  One unexpected useful feature is the LCD screen rotates out and makes it very simple to take good self portraits - you can see exactly what you are going to get.  Battery life is excellent.  I would say the biggest advantage of this over point and shoot cameras, besides the obvious picture quality, is the speed at which you can snap photos.  I appreciate the anti-slip coating on the body.  It feels very solid and well built.  The roller makes it quick and easy to change from color to B&W.  I have not even scratched the surface with all of the features - I will leave that to more of an expert.  But being a novice, I really like the useful modes such as "night portrait", and "night landscape" just to name a couple of the many.  It even has one tailored for taking photos of pets!
One feature that I wish the camera came with is the flash does not pop up automatically like some dSLR's that I have used.  The G1 flashes a screen that tells you to open the flash - that could be a possible missed shot.  I also wish the lens cap had a tether instead of being forced to put it in your dirty pocket.  I would have liked if it came with a wrist strap but that is a small add on.  Other disadvantages is the limited availability of lenses and of course, cost.  I think I got mine for $630 with shipping (Thanks Amazon!).  I showed the G1 off to the manager at the local Ritz camera and he was impressed and wish he could get some in the store - so that bodes well for more advanced users.  
If minimizing weight and bulk is not a concern to you, you could definitely save some money by going to say, the Olympus E420 which was my second choice as it was the smallest and lightest dSLR that I could find. There are many good super-zoom P&S camera out there also, but I like the ability to switch lenses as I increase my skills and needs.  Overall I am very satisfied with the G1, and the wife absolutely loves the red color!