ID: B001GAPHOC-R3KF4NDE6EA0MF-A2IEP3G9E6DMJC
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-K2000-18-55mm-AF200FG-Flash
ReviewerID: A2IEP3G9E6DMJC
ReviewerName: John Five
Date: December 29, 2008
Helpful: 22 of 22
Rating: 5.0
Title: Pentax K2000 w/18-55mm lens and AF200FG Flash
Content:
This is a great camera.  Its pictures are stunning.  The camera is well built and it feels solid in your hand.  The kit lens is excellent and it uses all of my old 35mm Pentax lenses with the camera's stabilization feature.  
The camera is very intuitive to use; I was able to use it right out of the box and have then progressed to use more and more powerful features by reading the manual.  The features are all well thought out; this camera clearly implements many lessons learned from previous DSLR's because so many things are done so well.  It is simply very well engineered.
I have had a series of point and shoot digital cameras over the last several years including a Fuji, a Sony and a couple of Canons.  Before that I used a 35mm Pentax SLR and am therefore familiar with SLR operation.  I also have a number of good lenses from the film SLR. 
Part of my enthusiasm is this is my first DSLR and it offers so much more than the point-and-shoots and my old 35mm SLR. For example, I have been using its RAW feature and can save photos in both a Pentax and a standard Adobe RAW format, the latter I was able to use with Photoshop Elements 6 and have found all kinds of useful adjustments that were never available to me before.
I also like the fact that this camera uses regular AA batteries available anywhere.  
The AF200 flash works well in my group photo shots and is a great value bundled with the camera.  It has a nice diffuser cover for the flash to support wide angle shots.  On the negative side, the AF200 is not extremely powerful-- I was used to a more powerful one with my old 35mm's external flash and the AF200 can not be swiveled to bounce the flash off the ceiling--another feature I miss.  However, it is much more powerful than the pop-up on the camera and it too uses AA's.
Another feature I like about this camera is its low light performance.  The pictures I took at night making use of high ISO and image stabilization were simply amazing.
The camera does not have live display on the LCD on the back; you have to look through the viewfinder.  Despite my recent experience with the point-and-shoots which all have live view, I have not missed that feature-- looking through the viewfinder works well for me under all lighting conditions.
Overall, this has proven to be the perfect camera for me. I STRONGLY recommend it for folk coming from the point-and-shoot world and if you happen to have some old Pentax lenses (or buy some on e-bay) it makes an even more compelling purchase.  Five stars!