ID: B0017PP3MW-R140VYPY4US9AI-A1K4LANFZ3WX67
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-Antares-Canister-Showroom-Warranty
ReviewerID: A1K4LANFZ3WX67
ReviewerName: a bit wiser in CT
Date: March 9, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 1.0
Title: If you're not satisfied, it's too late.
Content:
I read the essentially unanimous glowing reviews of the the Miele Antares and happily ordered it online, thinking I'd saved myself some time and how could I go wrong since it was even free shipping. This is a $500 vacuum, but the on-line consensus was that it is well worth it. I took the machine out of the box and my first impression was how cheap and utilitarian the accessories were. I was pretty surprised given the reviews and the price. I started it up and was dismayed at how ineffective it was picking up pet hair off our medium pile rug. Our $150 Hoover does better and I was replacing it because I decided I didn't like bagless feature. The beater brush on the Miele is air driven and is easily slowed down by the rug. That's a pretty serious design flaw, especially on an expensive machine. So not only is the beater brush ineffective, all that air resistance steals the suction from what is a rather small (but yes, quiet!) motor. 
It took me all of 5 minutes to decide I did not want this vacuum, so I boxed it right back up, then began discovering why you should probably never buy a vacuum over the internet (unless you KNOW you will like it). First you have to jockey with the supplier for an RMA number. It didn't come automatically with an Email request, they wanted to interview me for the reason. Then comes the big ouch. You now incur 3 charges: you pay return shipping ($50), you forfeit free shipping to you ($50), and you pay a "20% restocking fee" ($100). So when all is said and done, assuming the return is actually accepted, I'm out $200 for the opportunity to test drive a Miele Antares. Your opinion may differ from mine and you may love this machine, but DON'T buy it based on on-line reviews or you are taking a BIG risk on your wallet.