ID: B001TK538O-R1HJWML6MAF8F2-AIB2BX2L4811
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Single-Gourmet-Coffee-Brewing
ReviewerID: AIB2BX2L4811
ReviewerName: J. Legg "NoParty"
Date: February 20, 2009
Helpful: 22 of 24
Rating: 4.0
Title: Convenient / Good Coffee
Content:
I'd never heard of K-cups when I ran into the
Keurig B66 in Costco. At [...]with 90 K-cups,
I figured it was worth a try. As a bit of a coffee snob
(longtime "Peetnik" who finds Starbucks a little too weak) 
I'd avoided systems like
Senseo because I figured that they wouldn't brew
coffee as strong as I like it. And that WAS my experience
with the Keurig, too: The sample K-cups were okay,
but--unless brewed on the tiny 5.25 oz setting--
far too weak for my taste. Again, let me stress,
MY personal taste is for coffee stronger than probably
95% of Americans, so take that into account.
Cons: Even after trying the K-cups recommended by
others who say they prefer strong coffee 
(Emeril's "Big Easy Bold," Coffee People's "Donut Shop Coffee,"
"Black Tiger" & "Wake Up", Timothy's "Midnight Magic" 
& "Rainforest Espresso," and so on, I'm still having
trouble finding a stiff cup of Joe brewed at 7.25 oz.
Also, they haven't developed an environmentally friendly
K-cup yet. Damn!  And it's pricey, by home coffee maker standards.
Pros: Clean-up...there really is none!  This format is the 
fastest, easiest, most trouble-free way to get a quick cup
of decent coffee. I'm in Bachelor Heaven! I brew whenever
I feel like it--'cause it's so easy--and never waste excess coffee.
I will never resort to instant, so this is a wonderful compromise:
It ain't french press coffee, folks, but it's pretty good and ridiculously easy.
Two or more folks can enjoy entirely different coffees at virtually
the same time.
Also, this package does include a device for using your own
coffee: after continuing to audition K-cups, I may eventually
resort to stuffing it with some quality Peet's coffee, here and there.
Also, there's a ton of different types of coffee, cocoa and tea for
this available at decent prices on Amazon 
(some people consider ~44 cents a serving expensive, but I'm used to 
paying for quality coffee--and not pushing for that many cups out of a pound
--so K-cups at ~$[...] for 48 cups (no tax or shipping) seems modest to ME.
From what I'm told, the B60 is the closest model for comparison...
both have 3 sizes (5.25 oz, 7.25 oz & 9.25 oz). I've heard another
Keurig model offers a 11.25 oz option, but given that I'm having
trouble finding something strong enough at 7.25, 11.25 seems laughable.
I'm using Brita water, for what it's worth, and have only had the
machine for about a month, so I can't yet speak to its durability.
It vibrates a bit and makes a little noise. Neither bothered me,
but I can see that if one person was up, making coffee, a light
sleeper in a nearby room might notice the sound.
Here's a tip: A company called Kenoza[...]
offers single cup purchases. I know the 90 cups that mine came with
sound like a lot, but I immediately realized I needed the strongest
options, so went to Kenoza and got 2 or 3 samples (at 46 cents each)
of many of the strongest ("Extra Bold" is the K-cup jargon)...coffees;
far better than blindly buying 48 cups of something you may hate!
So, in summary, at [...] with 90 K-cups I think it's a freakin'
bargain. Obviously, the more you have to pay, the less spectacular
the deal. Drinkable coffee--no one's going to mistake it for Peet's
in a french press--but it's better than instant and some regular drip
coffee makers. If you like a variety of coffees, and don't care if
it's strong, run, don't walk, to the Keurig...and the lack of clean-up 
is AWESOME!