ID: B001ENOZY4-R1TTMPPUNDYYD5-A1KNQ25G37C7ZL
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D90-Digital-18-105mm-3-5-5-6G
ReviewerID: A1KNQ25G37C7ZL
ReviewerName: Rex V. Polito
Date: November 17, 2008
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: YOU WILL LOVE THIS DSLR! (Here's some setting tips & lens/accessory suggestions for the D90)
Content:
Review Update (June 30, 2009)
You have read the reviews. This pro-sumer camera is just that damn good.
I even bought one for my girlfriend.
I have been relentlessly using this camera ever since I bought it back in September 2008 when it first came out in the market. So let me just focus on how you could realize and maximize the Nikon D90 experience.
If you are in a tight budget and a beginner/intermediate in DSLR, the D90 with 18~105mm kit lens bundle is a good place to start. I have used and brought this fine piece of equipment almost everywhere I travel and I never encountered any of the lens mounting nor memory card errors mentioned by a few in the review. If your have extra $$$ to spare, I would recommend that you get the D90 body only and get the Nikon 18~200mm f3.5~5.6 VR as your ultimate walk around (general photography) camera set-up. If you already own your set of lenses you should just skip the bundle and just purchase the body since you probably established your lens and set-up preferences.
For portraits and low light photography, I absolutely recommend the Nikon 35mm f1.8 DX on the D90. Absolutely "DX DSLR photography heaven" in my book. The bokeh is creamy and the focal length gives you a lot of footwork freedom compared to the 50mm and 85mm primes in close environments. But don't let me discourage you to get the 50mm f1.4 and 85mm f1.4 lenses. Those are great lenses with bokeh to melt for. I just find the 35mm as the best focal length for my style.
For those who want a real pro-level general photography set-up with the D90, get the 17~55mm f2.8 DX and 70~200mm f2.8 VR plus the 35mm f1.8 prime lens. This would be a reasonable (cost effective) alternative to the holy trinity of Nikon lenses: 14~24mm f2.8, 24~70mm f2.8 and 70~200mm f2.8 VR. 
The size, weight and grip of the D90 is about right for an average person. The outside construction is made of good quality plastic and rubber which has been proven to be tough enough to withstand moderate impacts and deal with the elements of most environments.
The menus and controls are so easy to use. You can actually start using the camera and survive by just browsing the screen and by reading the quick start manual without reading the full manual booklet.
I absolutely recommend that the Picture Control settings on the menu be configured from Standard to VIVID to maximize color and contrast. Trust me on this one, this makes a huge difference in the tone of the pictures off the bat.
Shooting in low-light, even with the kit lens alone, is pretty good because of the wide ISO range of the D90 and plus the fact that the kit lens has Vibration Reduction. Several reviews downplay the 18~105mm kit lens because they overlook the fact that it is probably one of lowest priced wide-standard-telephoto focal range VR lens in the Nikon line. 
Also, be aware that the exposure compensation controls are easily accessible by the shutter button. This is the answer to the several over exposure concerns, which was brought up by a few in the review, when the D90 is used out in bright sunlight. Get a circular polarizer if you prefer an easy alternative. 
The HD video feature entirely depends on how good you can handle manual zoom/focus controls at the same time. I found that using a prime lens makes it easier since you only have to worry about manual focusing with some fancy footwork. Personally, the video thing came in handy on some occasions but this should really not be the selling point of this equipment. The internal microphone can not process loud low frequency (bass) sound and ends up drowning the audio recording itself.
Lasty, I recommend the MB-D80 battery grip for added comfort & total balance. Get any of the Nikon external flash system to the D90 set-up
and you can literally shoot under any lighting condition. I have the SB-900 which is so big and chunky it could light up an entire ballroom with a cloud of soft light. Those who own any DSLR camera, regardless of brand, should only use the internal pop-up flash as the last alternative source of light.
Hope this review helped you decide.
(below is my September 2008 Review)
Just do yourself a big favor and just get this camera... happy days will soon come... Excellent control and user interface layout... low light photography with the kit lens alone is a knock-out!... 4.5 frames/sec. got you covered for action shots... the HD video feature is a plus... but you'll be turned off by the mediocre audio quality... Feature by feature the best pro-sumer DSLR to date... Easily, the camera which bridges the consumer and professional photographers... so why are you still sitting there?... go get it!