ID: B001FSKDWQ-R16ONYNXRPJYLK-A1V8W048PBSOIA
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Panasonic-DMC-G1-Digital-3-5-5-6-Red
ReviewerID: A1V8W048PBSOIA
ReviewerName: M. Goldberg
Date: August 3, 2009
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: Good replacement for compact super-zoom
Content:
You should know where I coming from. My previous camera was a compact sensor, fixed lens, super-zoom camera (Canon S3 IS). I now own and am very happy with a Panasonic Lumix DMC-G1. I have both the 14-45mm/F3.5-5.6 basic zoom and the 45-200mm/F4-5.6 telephoto zoom.
There are two areas where the where the G1 really shines: its electronic viewfinder and its focusing capabilities, both auto and manual. I am old enough and my eyesight poor enough to make an electronic viewfinder superior to an LCD screen or a penta-mirror viewfinder. I also don't like large, heavy cameras. The G1 is only a tad bigger than many point-and-shoot cameras. 
The G1 viewfinder image is high-resolution, full-time live view. It is like looking at HDTV. All the other electronic viewfinder cameras that I am familiar with produce what look like grainy SDTV images when compared to the G1.
Aa for focusing, autofocus on the Canon S3 was slow and it often failed to lock on target. Manual focusing was so difficult as to be a joke. On the G1, both manual focus and autofocus are amazingly good.
When using autofocus (AF), the G1's 23 AF points really make a big difference (the S3 has only one). The focus is fast and accurate even in fairly low light situations. The G1 shows you the AF points it is using in the viewfinder. I find that feedback reassuring. The G1 also provides a subject tracking feature that really works. You can focus on a subject, then shift camera to recompose without loosing the focus. No holding down the shutter button halfway or pressing an AF lock button required.
As for the manual focus, it simply works as I think it ought to. The lenses have a proper focus ring, and the viewfinder goes into 5x magnification as soon as you start to turn it (you can disable this if you want to). A click on the front mounted control wheel and the magnification goes up to 10x. A second click and the magnification returns to 5x. That's something even high-end DSLRs can't do -- I mean without taking one's eye off the viewfinder and switching to live view. And, yes, the magnification area can be moved around the view frame.
I have found the two lenses I have for the G1 give excellent images. It would be nice to have faster lenses, but Panasonic decided to keep the price down rather than market (much) more expensive lenses with larger maximum apertures.
In all other respects, the G! performs as well or better than the DSLR cameras in its price range. The G1 is a good choice over its price competitors when having a large, bright, sharp viewfinder image and having first-class focusing capabilities are important purchase criteria.