ID: B0013B88FO-RR708KYL6UTPD-A3TF1IM6FR9XU
Category: MP3Players
Product: Sony-Walkman-Video-Player-Pink
ReviewerID: A3TF1IM6FR9XU
ReviewerName: B. VanGrinsven
Date: June 28, 2008
Helpful: 15 of 18
Rating: 4.0
Title: UPDATED:  4.5 months and battery is shot  (2 Stars)
Content:
I purchased the NWZ-A728 thinking that I was getting an MP3 / video player.  I already owned a Sansa 4GB mp3 player that I was happy with (overall) but it lacked any practical video playback features.  The NWZ-A728 is slim, lightweight and sturdy.  Its menu system is user-friendly and its sound quality is superb.  
Unfortunately, the NWZ-A728 is to video players what a McDonalds hamburger is to steak:  technically it's beef but its definitely not a t-bone.  It doesn't support Amazon Unbox movies and you need to convert video files to MP4 format.  After several attempts with converter software downloaded from the internet (Sony support won't help you out in this regard) I finally purchased the Sony Media Manager upgrade which lets you convert and transfer video files to the player with relative ease (although the conversion process can take some time).  
Now that I've got software to transfer video, the battery has gone haywire.  The player now needs to be charged every day (yep, every day) no matter how long you actually use the player.  If I use it for a 1/2 hour workout today (mp3 playback only), it will be dead by morning if its not charged. Manually powering down the player doesn't seem to work.  It's as if the player never shuts off.  Obviously, a player that needs a daily charge isn't going to work very well if you're traveling.
The Sony limited warranty covers parts for 1 year but only covers labor for 90 days.  A call to Sony reveals a flat $77 service charge to return the player for battery replacement - nearly 1/2 of the cost of the player itself!!  A second call to Sony's parts department and I was quoted a $47.38 price tag for a replacement battery but it's a 2-3 week back order.
I love this player but I'm soured on the battery and Sony support.