ID: B0017YUX5A-RF8Z8RESCCQGF-ADYKPIUOK9S21
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3670-WindTunnel-Anniversary-Canister
ReviewerID: ADYKPIUOK9S21
ReviewerName: HarvF69
Date: September 7, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great for rug cleaning, but not for dusting chores
Content:
The Hoover S3670 WindTunnel canister vacuum cleaner does a great job on rugs.  However, dusting chores are difficult using the short crevice tool and the narrow V-shaped dusting brush because the large, heavy plastic handle attached to the hose keeps getting in the way. It next to impossible dusting in tight spaces. Even though I'm a guy, I have to use both hands for dusting the furniture and vacuuming the sofa, because the handle is heavy and clunky. It would be nice if the handle could be detached from the hose. I like having the ON/OFF switch for the motorized rug cleaning attachment on the handle, but hate having to step on the side panel with the universal ON/OFF symbol on one side of the vacuum cleaner in order to operate the machine.  This misguided arrangement is very awkward especially if you're vacuuming stairs--- unless you have extra wide stairs, you'll have to use your fingers to turn the machine on and off on the stairway.  There's another panel with a symbol of a plug on the other side of the machine to retract the cord.  It's hard to distinguish one panel from another, because the symbols embossed on them are the same color as the panels themselves. They need to be highlighted in a contrasting color for easy recognition.  Better still, why not put the ON/OFF button for the machine on the hose handle next to the one which operates the motorized rug brush attachment?  Other suggestions for a better vacuum cleaner: the hose needs to be redesigned so that it stretches and doesn't keep tangling. The wand needs to be lengthened at least a foot more to facilitate ceiling cleaning. Also, make the crevice tool at least 12 inches long---the 6 inch one doesn't do the job.  And, redesign the dusting brush from a skinny V-shaped one to a larger round one---what were the designers thinking?