ID: B001FA1NDW-RCCKGWAPQM579-A1H4587XKC7AMX
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Orange-Generation-Previous-Model
ReviewerID: A1H4587XKC7AMX
ReviewerName: Carrie "Librarian in Training"
Date: October 12, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Apple's iPods always excel
Content:
After trying another little mp3 player from a different company, I bit the bullet and got the black 4th generation iPod nano, which was on clearance at a department store.  I wasn't keen on getting the newest 5th generation, as I don't need to record video, I don't really listen to the radio, and though the pedometer is a clever little feature on the newest iPod nano, I can't see myself ever paying that much attention to it. So, the previous 4th generation version was perfect for me.
First impression, right out of the box:  Holy crap, this thing is TINY! And thin as all get out.  It feels/looks to me as though if you're a tiny bit too rough with it, it'll snap in half.  I'd recommend some sort of silicon, or, better yet, hard case to go with it.  This way if you are less than extremely gentle, your iPod will be protected.  A screen protector would do well also to keep your screen from getting scratched, if you go with a silicon case.  As many reviews have already stated, dump the proprietary Apple earbuds that come with your iPod and go with your favorite, better earphones.  (Make sure they are compatible, of course.) The sound is crystal clear and very, very nice - best I've heard from the iPod line so far.  The graphics and color on the iPod are also amazing; I was happy with the ability to increase the font size on the display, which is good for perhaps older folks with limited eyesight.  I can't comment on photo quality as I don't have any stored on my iPod yet, but, as far as movies go - VERY nice.  The picture quality is once again crystal clear, audio quality is amazing.  The only drawback I see is that the screen is small so I wouldn't recommend watching a lot of movies or tv shows on your iPod, but as a good time-filler or a distraction for the kids on a long car or plane ride... go for it.
A lot has been said about the quality of the iTunes software or folks not wanting to be locked into a specific program to manage your music... fact is, you're not locked in.  Use Google and I bet you can find 1 or 2 alternate programs other than iTunes that you can use to manage your music.  I'm not using iTunes ;) I've also seen complaints about how the iPod Nano 4th Generation is difficult to use without more information than the little insert provided by Apple; again, Google is your friend.  If you don't know how to do something, Google it, and the answer will pop right up.  I've had to do that once or twice for minor questions, and I found the answer each time.  Plus Apple's website has an 80-page manual for the 4th gen which will surely answer most of what you need to know.
All in all, I'm very pleased with this little player, and I think others will be too.  Call me an elitist, but if you're looking for a player that's easy to use, has great sound, and is made well, Apple's iPods are top of the line.