ID: B001MS6NRS-R2JYRYKRZMFAVI-A3HJ8AM1I0MCE5
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VGN-CS260J-14-1-Inch-Processor-Blu-ray
ReviewerID: A3HJ8AM1I0MCE5
ReviewerName: Krista B.
Date: September 6, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: sony serves you right
Content:
First off, don't buy it because its pretty. Yes I have it in pink but that was not the determining factor; I just love that I have the option. What the other reviewer is saying about the keyboard I don't get because yeah the keys ARE spaced together but its a typical laptop keyboard but its comfortable to type on. The best part is all that gunk and funk don't get stuck in between the keys but they aren't so close together. 
Its fast, and has a lot of space although its still smart to back up your stuff so you don't get screwed in case something does happen. The sound quality is great; I do voice over IP and there was no issue. Also, when I was working with the Blu-ray and other things it is great;the graphics and picture quality are amazing and the screen is just the right size. I watch Blu-ray's, DVS's and also download from Netflix to this computer and its perfect! The touch sensor AV control is a nice touch. 
For photos, I love that it has all the slots not just one. Especially because no one is getting pictures from me if I have to take that extra step of hooking a camera up to the computer to do it. 
Out of the box the battery setting comes out OPTIMIZED I recommend the Balanced setting or you be constantly recharging your battery. My only beef is windows vista which takes some time getting used to but is an easy transition. Also, word of warning scrap the Windows OneCare its crap and they are doing away with it because it performs so poorly yet Microsoft still allows people to purchase it. Save your money for Norton instead. 
Lastly,I've had this computer for over two months now and not a problem. This is my second Vaio the first which is over five years old and with my active duty husband aboard a US Navy submarine. And trust me he is not gentle with anything. These are NOT crap-made computers and last a good long time when you take care of them right. (p.s. I also buy a sqauretrade warranty to be on the safe side too). Buy it you won't regret it.