ID: B00125MHVM-R3QZY2BEDLV14H-A2Q3U1ZD9JOJJB
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Sony-Digital-SteadyShot-Stabilization-18-70mm
ReviewerID: A2Q3U1ZD9JOJJB
ReviewerName: Reza K.
Date: April 3, 2008
Helpful: 66 of 66
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Camera, Great Price!!!
Content:
Sony has really done it. This isn't gonna be a technical review, just what I feel are strong points and weak points of this camera. 
This is a great camera for beginners of SLR's to learn on but ain't too bad for those of you who know what you are doing. I myself have had film SLR's for many years, this is my first DSLR and cost was a factor for me. I am in no way made of money so the low price really sold me (no pun intended). The features you expect from an SLR are all there, and you can go from full auto to full manual and every point in between in a just a flip of a switch and the pressing of a few buttons to set up your shot. 
Built in Image Stabilization is a great feature to have, especially when some camera makers build it into the lens, which, in turn, makes your lens prices considerably higher. 
Some people complain about no live view on the LCD, but I personally prefer no live view. It saves on some battery life and it makes it feel like more of a real camera and less of a point and shoot. If you want live view, wait for the A300K
The camera feels sturdy and isn't too big or small. I have very large hands and the camera feels good in my hands. It is mostly plastic, which in a way can feel a bit cheap but doesn't seem to be a problem at this time.
ISO setting is great. If you want to shoot in low light situations you have ISO settings up to 3200 with a supposed noise reduction but I haven't checked that out yet. I personally have it set on 100 and will keep it there for the least amount of noise.
Media options are GREAT!!! Sony MemorySticks are ridiculously priced. Especially when you need to have a high capacity one for these big pics (esp. shooting in RAW). Luckily this camera takes CompactFlash cards, which are some of the cheapest one you can get. (I got mine here on Amazon 4GB for $42).
The only thing I have a problem with on this camera is that you have to pay an extra $12 for an LCD protector (small plastic cover for LCD screen). Some camera makers include this with their SLR's. Sony should have included this as well.
Just don't forget the accessories. It will be nice to get the 70mm-300mm lens (which I got for $229) for those far away and macro shots. Screen protector is $12. Memory will vary by the amount you get. I also bought a nice tripod/monopod for $40.
So that's it. With this camera you will be taking very nice pictures, at high resolutions and at a reasonable price. There are very few downfalls in the design, and a lot of extremely nice features. Hope this helps with your decision.