ID: B001P05NJ2-R296LH4FOPICZ3-A1SNNX6TJBOI0L
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MC026LL-15-4-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1SNNX6TJBOI0L
ReviewerName: gloriousdeals777
Date: February 26, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 40
Rating: 2.0
Title: Returning Laptop, it's nice, but not enough to compensate for the price
Content:
I paid 1800.00 for this Notebook.  I expected something that was worth every penny because all the Apple products I purchased in the past, I would have paid double what I paid, because the design and functionality is so nice and it's a quality product.  The NEW Macbook Pro 15.4 inch does look nice, is high quality made, etc.
Pros: 
1.Mousepad is very cool.  
2.Design is very nice. It is pretty light.
3.Sound is pretty good.  
4.Magnetic battery plug is awesome.  
5.Battery life is amazing and can be charged 1000 times.  
6.Slot-loading DVD drive is great.  
7.Keypad is pretty nice and backlit.  
8.Fantastic quality iCamera. 
Cons: The reasons I am returning this product.
1.When you type in wordpad, and try to print it, it is so small not even a magnifying glass could fix.  I tried messing around with the word wrap and stuff, but with the price of this notebook, this is not right.
2.Price
3.Latch on back is almost too easy to open and get to the hard drive, etc.
4.Only 2 USB Ports, what are they thinking?
5.No HDMI Port
6.Hardly any products are made for MAC still, they are all windows only.
7.Text in Safari is very hard to read just like Textedit.
I've read all the reviews on the laptop and I feel that most people are just Mac Fanboys and don't give honest reviews.  I am not one sided when it comes to computers because we have apple and microsoft products and I love them both for their own reasons.  I am just disappointed with this Macbook Pro because, while the performance is pretty good, the Cons far outweigh the Pros for this notebook.  I am getting a Dell XPS 16 which has like 4 usb ports, hdmi port, backlit keyboard, leather on the casing, finger scanner, protective case, HD SCreen.  It just makes much more sense to get more quality of a product and have more things work with it.  I paid about 1300.00 for the Dell XPS 16 and I paid 1800.00 for the Macbook Pro.  While Apple makes great products, Dell's laptops feel just as nice for a much lower price.  Maybe in the future Mac will fix a few issues and more things will work with it.  Until that time, I am sticking with Windows.  PS (This is an unbiased review, so read it with confidence that you are getting honest feedback). God loves you.