ID: B001CPP58E-R6VXGKP43ZIUH-A3LIF253SVDRMW
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: DeLonghi-DCH4590ER-500-Watt-Ceramic-Control
ReviewerID: A3LIF253SVDRMW
ReviewerName: Jason Crawford
Date: March 1, 2009
Helpful: 10 of 12
Rating: 2.0
Title: Okat Heater, But Needs Better Design
Content:
I've had this heater for 2 weeks now.  I've had several space heaters in the past to compare it with.  I purchased it for a couple features I wanted - a remote control and a digital thermostat.  As far as noise goes, it is definitely not the quietest heater, and unfortunately does not have a high/low setting for the fan speed as some space heaters have to perhaps reduce the noise level.  It's not exactly as loud as a hair dryer, but more on the level of a bathroom exhaust fan.  Every time it kicks on though, the fan makes a shutteringly loud creeking noise until it gets going.  For the amount of noise it makes, you would think though that it would move more air, as the fan is very weak.  There is an automatic shutoff switch on the base of the unit in case the heater gets knocked over.  Unfortunately, due to this ridiculous design, you'll find yourself having to reprogram the unit every time you move it at all since it actually cuts the power off to it and it doesn't save your settings!  Furthermore, if you have any sort of carpet, you'll have to tape or glue the switch down!  They should have used an internal ball bearing tilt switch or another type of tilt sensor.  Next, the LCD display is hard to read, especially at night, unless you're close.  This kills the idea of the remote!  They should have inverted the LCD display, having the characters lit instead of the background, or used LEDs.  The buttons are also hard to read.. they are completely black with no paint for contrast on the labels.  Finally, the unit has some strange behavior.  I have a thermometer that I've been monitoring its accuracy with, and all I can see is that the unit leaves a lot to be desired in this department.  More specifically, it doesn't turn on right away if for example, the room is 68 and I have it set to 72.  I'll have to crank it up to 75, then after it kicks in for a while, set it back to 72.  
DeLonghi should have put more funding into design, evaluation, and the features more people care about rather than things like anti-freeze mode and a cheap air filter (which removing didn't make much difference in air flow or noise).  If I were an executive at DeLonghi, I would immediately fire the entire design and engineering team on this one, and start from scratch!
It's not worth the hassle to return this, and if I could do it over again, I would have purchased another unit.  However, when I was evaluating different space heaters, I found every unit left much to be desired.  Perhaps it's the same set of morons that designed this space heater that's been designing every other one out there!