ID: B0017J7T7A-R22YZ1TR7WPRHX-A20DZX38KRBIT8
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB471LL-15-4-Inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: A20DZX38KRBIT8
ReviewerName: Deimos "Rock Fan"
Date: January 29, 2009
Helpful: 9 of 55
Rating: 1.0
Title: Over priced under proforming computer.
Content:
OK so I have used both versions of Macbook pro and I can attest to the fact that there is no way in hell that this system is worth nearly 3000$. OS X is a so so OS, the system runs ok same as any other MAC I guess. I bought an ACER Extenza 2.2 GHZ, 4GB RAM, 320gb HD w. Vista Home Premium and it's way faster then the macbook pro. At which time I realized that the macbook pro had cost me three times as much for less performance and speed...plus no games and minimal apple only applications/software. For the price macbook pro's should be a hell of alot faster. Plus in a few years....good luck upgrading. The DVD/CD rom drive sucks because unlike my ACER or any PC/laptop it doesen't have the eject button right on the dvd drive, so if your MAC locks up (which it will) there's no way to eject the cd/dvd (yes I tried to keyboard eject button) with the mac locked up it's useless. I think all those that complain about VISTA should use a mac w. OS X and see how quick they run back to windows just to have the capatability and limitless computing options again and not be limited to only what comes from Apple. No MAC is worth the asking price, they are generally slower than any PC/Windows based Laptop I have ever compared it too and are severly limited compared to windows users. Save your money, buy a high end windows laptop and a PC together for less then what Apple wants for their Macbooks. Next off, as stated this laptop is half as fast as an ACER Extanza or Gateway T-Series with the same specs. The pro gets boiling hot when running simple apps, and even gets so hot it could damn near start a fire, it's hot enough that you can bearly stand to touch it near the battery and under the screen/keyboard. It can't run windows for crap, even with boot camp. I boot camped Windows XP and the mac pro had an extremely hard time running it, taking forever to boot up and shut down, im talking like 10 mins. That goes to show that windows based laptops (PC's) are faster and better. Little heat, top notch speed (totally smoked the macbook pro easily). A mac runs OS X duh good but can't even handle XP......sad. Mac sucks. Overpriced BS.