ID: B001I902HS-R3OZE3HSZKDYK5-A3GTJ37QK2SPSB
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Panasonic-MC-CG885-OptiFlow-Lightweight-Canister
ReviewerID: A3GTJ37QK2SPSB
ReviewerName: Fanshawe
Date: February 5, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: Wonderful vacuum, expensive to maintain
Content:
We have about half hard floor and half carpet so a canister vac fits the bill well. 
This vacuum is a well constructed and well made tool. The lighted head of the vacuum has a beater brush which works better than the upright I own on carpeting. There is the option of switching the power on or off the head/beater brush depending on whether one is cleaning hard floor or carpet. However, if the power is switched off there obviously is no light, just suction. It would be nice if the power switch controlled the beater brush only, as it would be great to be able to see the dust bunnies under my sofa when using the suction only feature on hard surfaces.
The hose is solidly constructed, partly of metal, reminding me of my mother's well made tank of a canister vac of 1960s vintage. The attached head and wand will extend almost flat, making it easy to clean under beds, furniture, etc. It is an attractive and modern shape which stores fairly easily. A long retractable cord is especially nice.
The suction is powerful. This, the beater brush and the self power feature makes it wonderful for carpeting. In fact, I think I prefer my other lightweight canister (Eureka Mighty Mite) for hard floor...but this beats an upright any day due to its maneuverability and strength on carpet.
The major downside I found was that replacement bags are extremely hard to find and exorbitantly expensive. For the price of this vacuum, I would have expected to receive at least one replacement bag, preferably a pack of three. But it only arrived with the one bag it was born with, which is very small indeed. The bag itself is of such a heavy material that I thought perhaps it was reusable, but it's not. I did however commit the cardinal sin of emptying it and reusing it with no ill effects. However, I would not recommend this long term. What was I to do, though, having such fun vacuuming?
This "gotcha" really is worth taking a star off, in my opinion. The only place I have found these bags so far is on Ebay, and at a price I just refuse to pay.
So for now, until the price goes down on the bags and they are easier to find, I my Panasonic vac sits waiting patiently in all its glory.