ID: B001E52VZ2-RWY2JYUNDCS5B-A86QD3XO8ZXI8
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Eureka-3670G-Mighty-Canister-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A86QD3XO8ZXI8
ReviewerName: S. Kelly "Music, Film and Book Lover"
Date: April 14, 2007
Helpful: 363 of 368
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great Product - Confusing Product Information
Content:
When trying to decide if this model (3670G) was the right vacuum for me, I found a considerable amount of confusing information regarding it's features on the internet..and from the manufacturer itself. First of all, many online retailers flat out state (inaccurately) that this model has a "HEPA" (High Efficiency Particulate Air) filter and at least one of the reviews for it here on Amazon (at least as of this writing) seems to indicate that it has one as well. I can tell you outright that having checked with the manufacturer directly and now owning one myself that it does *NOT* have a "HEPA" filter. More on that a little later in this review however.
I found another confusing aspect of the description is in the model number (i.e. 3670G). Be careful to understand the difference between what Amazon calls the 3670 (also called the 3670A in some places) and the 3670*G* models. They look identical and appear to be identical (both are yellow and black) however the 3670 only has a 9 amp motor and the 3670G has the larger, 12 amp motor. Amazon carries both models and I almost ended up buying the smaller one thinking it was the same vacuum. For only about a $5-$10 difference in total price, I'm not sure why the smaller version is even offered. It only seems to confuse the matter. The 3670 also does *NOT* have the "HEPA" filter incidentally.
I found the 3670G to be an excellent value however and am pleased with my purchase. It is compact, very powerful and great for my needs. The noise...while high...is  quite tolerable and not at all excessive considering how well it cleans. The generously long cord wraps easily around the base for storage and while a retractable cord would have been extremely useful, not having one is a reasonable trade-off in keeping the price down. The blower port feature is very handy for cleaning my computer insides (by blowing away dust without contacting electrical components as vacuuming would risk doing).
The 3670G *does* require bags. It is not a "bagless" model however and while some may prefer a bagless model, I preferred a model that used bags. The bags are very easy to change on this model and not that much of an additional expense for what I consider to be the additional convenience (of being able to easily remove and dispose of a bag).
The only reason I gave this model 4 stars and not 5 was because I did not find the attachment brushes quite adequate. Three attachment tools are included, a crevice tool, a 10" floor tool and a combination tool with a triangularly-shaped brush (about 2" wide) on the end. The combination tool also flips over to double as brushless pick-up (3" wide).
In my opinion, this cleaner badly needs a mid-sized brush and/or pick up tool that is about 4-5" wide. The 2" wide combination tool brush does concentrate the suction into a small area for high power but being only 2" wide, I found that I simply had to move it much too frequently on larger surfaces (such as a wall for example) in order to cover the area needed. I would have rated this vacuum 5 stars if a brush about 4-5" wide had been included. As it is, I am searching for an optional brush that size to purchase extra. 
Finally, a comment about the "HEPA" filter. Some people (particularly those with allergies or who need extremely dust free air) may want cleaners that include this item. In my case, I did not want this since I don't need it and "HEPA" filters can be quite expensive to change and replace (unless you get a washable one...also expensive). Since many online descriptions I found were unclear whether the 3670G included this filter (some descriptions flatly stated that it does), I found myself calling the Eureka customer service number to find out for sure.
It turned out that even Eureka's own customer service representative was unsure whether it contained the filter or not and had to take some considerable time to find out that it didn't have one. If you *do* want the "HEPA" filter, you would want the 3684D...which looks the same but  is red in color, slightly more expensive, and has more and better quality attachments as well as the "HEPA" filter.  By the time you add in the cost of an optional additional attachment (which I mentioned earlier that I think is needed on the 3670G), you are at the price of a 3684D. In that case, the 3684D may well be a better value for you, particularly if you like the "HEPA" filter.    
Overall, I think "The Boss" series of canister vacuums is a great product. Eureka (and Amazon as well) needs to do a much better job of clarifying the differences between the particular models in the series however.