ID: B0012Q94AI-R2SFNP78J17HPQ-AB0Y33G717HOU
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-14-6MP-Digital-Camera-Reduction
ReviewerID: AB0Y33G717HOU
ReviewerName: nsv
Date: May 16, 2008
Helpful: 31 of 31
Rating: 5.0
Title: First impression: I love it!
Content:
I've only shot about 1700 images so far, so I haven't fully explored all the new features on this camera.  This is my first impression and I'll update this review as I become more familiar with it.
I've used the K10D since it came out, and the K20D is a strong addition to the line.  The new sensor is amazing.  Live View is very handy when you're reaching to get the camera into an awkward position.  I haven't needed the Dust Alert feature yet, but since I shoot in less than clean conditions, I'm guessing it will come in handy.
One of the features of the K10D that they've kept, and the primary reason I switched to Pentax in the first place, is the construction of the body with 72 seals to keep water and dust out.  I've used the K10D in the pouring rain, in sea spray, and in smoky or dusty, windy conditions, and never had a problem.  I've started to expose the K20D to the same conditions, and I expect the same performance.
The Shake Reduction is also fantastic, especially for my shaky hands.  It doesn't replace a tripod, but it does allow me to shoot handheld in lower lighting than I ordinarily could.  Since I have several lenses, it's also a money saving feature for me.
5/26/08 update: Three additional comments:
I've used this camera in both pouring rain and windy dusty conditions (not at the same time, obviously.)  Since the body construction didn't seem dramatically different from the K10D, I expected it to survive my abuse, and so far it has.
Live View with a tripod and a wireless remote is heaven in awkward positions!  No more contorting my body to squeeze into difficult spaces!  (Well, ok, I do that for long enough to focus, then stand comfortably and switch to Live View.  You can use the AF button to focus while using Live View, but I guess I'm a little old fashioned, and I like seeing my subject in focus in the viewfinder.)
It can be frustrating waiting for the images to write to the card, especially when you shoot in Continuous Shooting mode and shoot six or eight images at a time.  But since part of that is due to the speed of the card and part of it is due to the size of the images, I can't complain about the camera here.  If you are shooting multiple large raw files quickly, BUY FAST CARDS.
I've just scanned the manual and didn't notice the maximum capacity, but I'm using 8GB SDHC cards.
Now that I've spent a little time using it, I love this camera even more.