ID: B001P05NKG-R30NF9U1TY7M3D-A4EKVQER3YGZC
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB990LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A4EKVQER3YGZC
ReviewerName: Forza Italia 2007
Date: August 30, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 4.0
Title: Excellent 13" Laptop Choice
Content:
* I should start this review with a warning. I had a major issue with my Macbook Pro, which I detail in the last paragraph of this review. I have not let this issue affect my rating for this laptop because I believe my situation is rare and not to be expected with the majority of 13" Macbook Pro's purchased. 
The 13" Macbook Pro is an excellent choice for consumers looking for a portable, sturdy, beautiful, and easy computer to work with. The build of this laptop is by far the nicest you'll find of the 13" variety. At 4.5 lbs this laptop is very easy to carry around. Perfect for a college campus or someone who is often on the go with their laptop. The screen is glass from edge to edge, providing rich and vibrant colors. With wifi on, bluetooth off, Itunes open, and some email along the way, I was able to squeeze out 5 hours on a single charge. VERY impressive. Firewire 800 has been included now on the Macbook Pro which is excellent if you plan to use your computer for video editing, etc. Also, Leopard as an operating system is fantastic and blows Vista out of the water. 
The only thing that I wasn't thrilled about on this laptop is the glossy screen. Glossy is a love/hate thing for me. The glass screen looks fantastic when the sun goes down, but indoors you need to be very careful during the day if you are sitting in a room that has sunlight coming through it. Glossy is notorious for picking up glare in said situations, so be warned. The truth is matte screens are more rare these days in laptops, so this is often an issue for any laptop you will purchase. If you want a Macbook Pro and want to go for a matte screen, it is an $50 additional charge and only available on both the 15" and 17" models via Apple's online store. 
Now to the issue I had with my Macbook Pro. Be warned, I don't believe this is a common issue, however from reading online forums like Mac Rumors and Apple's, other users have had this problem too. My Macbook Pro would often get the dreaded "beach ball" a couple times every hour. It would last for about 20 seconds during very simple applications like web browsing. My laptop also made numerous clicking noises when I would move the laptop side to side. This is an issue with the sensor motion. I ended up returning my Macbook Pro because I've read this issue can be found in the 15" an 17" models too. Again, this should not be a concern to you, but just be careful in case your Macbook Pro has the same problem I had.