ID: B001E532ZA-R3EHLS3ZX544SV-A1O07QCN2GZYHF
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Bosch-TAS4511UC-Tassimo-Single-Serve-Coffee
ReviewerID: A1O07QCN2GZYHF
ReviewerName: Steve S.
Date: March 15, 2009
Helpful: 301 of 308
Rating: 3.0
Title: Good coffee, with a few caveats for the sytem in general
Content:
As a coffee enthusiast I've done most of the things coffee enthusiasts do - grind their own beans, try to get their roasts as fresh as possible, use different brewers and methods, etc.  I tried the Senseo pod system as well.  I also currently have a Keurig system that I enjoy.  About six weeks ago I decided to try the Tassimo system, and these are my thoughts so far:
1.  I think the Bosch unit is well-built.  It is virtually instant-on, and its resevoir is adequate for home use.  Keurig requires a couple minutes from cold to ready, but allows you to set an on time to coincide with your wake-up time so it's ready to go when you are.
2.  I appreciate the fact that I can hold the brew button in and add some extra water to increase the portion size of a cup of coffee.  I think that is more convenient than Keurig's fixed-size portion choices.
3.  Overall, the coffee seems stronger than what the keurig typically brews.  This system seems to have a better extraction method, and of course the bar-coded discs allow for variety.
4.  While not a foamed-milk connoisseur, I think it does an adequate job of making lattes and such, with none of the attendant mess a steam wand and milk jar can create.
5.  The cost seems pretty much on par with the Keurig products.  If you have made a commitment to a cartridge-based coffee maker, you won't be sticker-shocked by the cost per cup.  Of course it's higher than if one grinds their own beans, but on average I am using far less for brewing and, more importantly, not wasting partial pots that have grown cold or being forced to brew 4 cups when I only want one.  I think if one begins to consider the waste factor of regular coffeemakers and their minimum brewing quantities, these cartridge systems become more cost competitive at providing a near-instant cup of completely fresh, hot coffee.
That being said, I think there are some irritating drawbacks to this system:
1.  Unless you are happy with what you get locally, you better be prepared to get your order in by Wednesday at Tassimodirect, because they only ship on Fridays.  Miss the deadline, and you will wait a week.  Tassimo has a relatively thin selection compared to pods and K-cups, and many T-disc brands and types seem to be available only from Tassimo directly.  This reminds me of small-time E-Bay retailers who run their auctions and set them up to end and then have a once-weekly "ship date".  That's fine for them; it's amateurish for a company that is a division of Kraft Foods.
2.  Brewing takes longer to complete.  When my Keurig machine is done, I need to wait perhaps 5 seconds to remove my coffee cup and open the unit and pull the pod out.  The Tassimo system seems to linger at the end of the brew cycle and dribble out coffee for quite some time.  If you get impatient and open the lid, you will likely be greeted by a whoosh of hot steam and hot, wet coffee grounds.  It really increases the amount of time to brew multiple cups.  Bosch needs to introduce an option that allows people who know they are not going to add additional water to their coffee to have the brewing cycle terminate and relieve the pressure in the brewing chamber at whatever point the barcode on the T-Disc has instructed the machine to fill/brew to.
3.  Watch out if you get a bad batch of T-Discs.  I have had 2 batches of discs (same flavor, 2 different packages) where about 80% of them ruptured during their brew cycle.  This results in hot water streaming out of the brewing area, accompanied by lots of coffee grounds in the brewing area and coming out of the unit.  It's a mess, and it's dangerous.  Both batches had actually ruptured the foil tops on the T-Disc pods.  I really doubt it's my unit because the dozen or so other brands/flavors/types I have tried have not ruptured.
Is it a good system?  Yes, it is.  It's positioned somewhere between K-Cups and Senseo-type pods, which have the largest choice, and the highly boutique systems such as Nespresso and Lavazza Blue, which have a much narrower focus and selection.  Its system is also more versatile at brewing than Keurig, which can't do Crema or milk foaming, but it does need some fine-tuning to cut down the cycle finishing time and make it safer to open to unit more quickly at the end of a cycle.