ID: B001JAGYLY-RX7QR59C71H75-A238OGA0YFR8H6
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3825-Cyclonic-Bagless-Canister
ReviewerID: A238OGA0YFR8H6
ReviewerName: J. Wang "california gurl"
Date: March 1, 2009
Helpful: 16 of 16
Rating: 4.0
Title: Don't waste your $$ on the Dyson! This one is better at half the price!
Content:
My previous vacuum was one of the upright yellow Dyson vacuums, so I'm comparing the Hoover bagless Cyclonic to the Dyson since many people may be wondering if they should go with an upright or a canister, or whether they should buy the high-tech Dyson or a tried-and-true Hoover.  (I went through the same process.)
On the plus side, it is more maneuverable than the Dyson upright.  By virtue of being a canister, it reaches under furniture better than any upright.  The hose is longer than the Dyson's. (I was always dragging the Dyson around to reach the corners when I had to use the hose + attachment-- a MAJOR pain.)  It's easier to change attachments than a Dyson.  The cord is retractable, and therefore easier to organize than the Dyson.  It cleans staircases easier than an upright.  It's bagless like the Dyson, and is as easy to empty.  It seems to pick up much more fuzz on carpets than the Dyson did-- I was astounded at how much fuzz came up the first time I used it, and I had used the Dyson for months before.  Also, the Dyson did not do a great job on wood floors-- I always ended up using the little round brush attachment; the Hoover Cyclonic Bagless does an excellent job on wood floors when you use the wide brush attachment (not the carpet-cleaner w/spinners).  
On the down side, it is noisier than the Dyson.  It has a high whine that I find annoying enough to wear earplugs when I vacuum.  I'm pretty sensitive to noise though and even wear earplugs when I blow-dry my hair, so the proverbial grain of salt might be appropriate.  And per the mfr, the HEPA filter is not lifetime like the Dyson, but I've only owned it for less than 4 months, and so far, so good.
I am very happy with the Hoover.  I paid about $199 at Sears (on sale), and would definitely say it does a better job than the $400 upright yellow Dyson that I used to own. Don't waste your money on the Dyson-- buy the Hoover Cyclonic.  It simply does everything better at half the price.