ID: B0012Y88QQ-R3PPMOXPS3SE7O-A2KDDOFAMGMPQJ
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-Rebel-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A2KDDOFAMGMPQJ
ReviewerName: Jerry Caulkins
Date: August 15, 2008
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: GREAT choice for my first DSLR!
Content:
This is my first venture into buying a DSLR and I have a college budget so I made sure I was spending my money on the best camera possible. I had been reviewing DSLRs for months and months before finally deciding on the XSI, and I could not be happier with my decision! From the moment I took it out of the box I have been taking better pictures than I ever thought I could. 
   I have some photography experience from a black and white photography class my first semester, but I am still quite green when it comes to the finer points of photography. It didn't at all matter with this camera.  Right out of the box it didnt take me long to figure out the controls and which buttons did what. I love that there was a dedicated ISO button, white balance button, metering options button, AND shooting mode button. The worst thing is when you have a great shot that wont last long (think kids, animals, nature) and you have to dig through menus to get what you want. This camera eliminates that worry. 
    The lens that came with this thing is also much better than I expected in a kit lens. The image quality looks amazing while doing both very close up shots and landscape. I am not an expert on lenses, but I used one of my fathers lenses that cost several hundred dollars and there REALLY was hardly any difference in picture quality. Especially for a kit lens, I was quite impressed. 
  One last thing I love, THE LCD screen! This thing is HUGE and has very good image quality. It is great for reviewing your shot, right up to the fine details. It really makes it easier to see if you got the shot you wanted before you take it all the way back to your computer and see you screwed it up. As for the live view, I wasnt real sure when I would use it, but I found out the other day. There was a nest of hornets low to the ground and I sure as heck wasnt sticking my face down there. I convieniently used the live view feature to get the camera close and compose the shot while keeping my body in position to run :)
Really the only thing that has annoyed me so far is how you have to smush your nose and face into the LCD when using the viewfinder. I am all the time having to wipe smudges off. But really, after having this camera for a week and all I have to complain about is smudges on the LCD? That really is hardly a complaint at all. I would recommend it for anyone from complete newbies, to people like me with a smattering of experience, to those that actually know what they're doing. This camera is amazing.
Also, to anyone interested. I posted some of my first first pictures on my Flickr account. These are pictures from a guy who has basically forgotten most of his photography class 2 years ago, and has had little time to do much photography at all.  The XSI went a long way in covering up my inexperience. At least I think so :)
http://www.flickr.com/photos/29479673@N07/show/