ID: B001V6SVJ4-R237OUBAOWF22Y-A1RWCAEPO7Y0PB
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-Canister-Vacuum-Cleaner-Deluxe
ReviewerID: A1RWCAEPO7Y0PB
ReviewerName: Nosewiper
Date: December 7, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Oh, if they could all be like this one!
Content:
I am smitten.  
We had a Panasonic last us a dozen years, once upon a time, and in the decade since, we've gone through at least half a dozen vacuum cleaners.  I've "splurged" on high-end Bissell machines, and I've taken my chances on a $30 clearance-rack machines (the WORST was that Dirt Devil upright...unbelievably loud, smelly, eegads...fortunately it burned out after a mere three months).  At best, they've lasted a couple of years, limping along with broken plastic parts for most of that time.
This time around, I thought I'd take the plunge and see if maybe, just maybe, spending REAL money would save in the long run.  After a stainless-steel, American-made Metropolitan vacuum arrived with a broken and terribly frail powerhead, I went off to the vacuum superstore and looked at everything else.  I made my choice with confidence after the salesman encouraged me to jump up and down on the Miele Leo, stomp and twist the hose, bend the cover over the tool storage compartment, and yank on the retractible cord.  
With 11 kids in the house, a dog with long, thick fur, four cats, and various other critters, we are not a lightweight-vacuum household.  And even Miele's nozzles are by far the sturdiest I've ever seen.  
Moreover, the Leo (I actually got a Gemini, the equivalent model available through Diamond dealers) is exceedingly quiet, it's casters are extremely agile, and every part snaps on soundly and firmly.  The bags are thick, quilted things complete with self-closing flaps for clean disposal.  The exhaust smells like fresh air.  It's not heavy, but it is solid.  It just feels like a luxury machine.  Even the kids and the husband are smitten with it.
The downside, of course, is price. That S236 Power Nozzle alone costs more than most of the other machines we've owned.  A simple upholstery nozzle is an eye-popping $30.  I've had to install shelves and hooks in the basement, to keep these treasures stowed in a worthy manner.  
But overall, I'm feeling spoiled rotten, with little doubt that this machine will last well past the 10 years I figure it will need to become cost-effective (based on the cumulative price of all those throw-away machine's we've owned).  Miele's own philosophy (one I heartily applaud) is that everything they make should last for 20 years.  If only more companies would operate on the same principal!