ID: B00185XISW-RBF5JPWVPNFKB-A18SUS6FTDRWV0
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Eco-heater-602-High-Efficiency-Electric-Whole-Room
ReviewerID: A18SUS6FTDRWV0
ReviewerName: Briggsmo
Date: November 30, 2008
Helpful: 33 of 34
Rating: 3.0
Title: OK, but won't heat a whole room in New England in the winter
Content:
I bought this heater to install in the nursery so the baby's room would stay warmer overnight while the rest of the house went down to 60 degrees.  The house has attic insulation, but no wall insulation, and  there are storm windows.
The good about the heater:  It is unobtrusive.  We have it installed on an interior wall out of the way.  It is easy to install; it took about 10 minutes.  It keeps the baby's room warmer than the rest of the house.  I also like the fact that it uses less power than a standard heater.  Not only is it cheaper to run, I have fewer concerns about overloading circuits.  I like the fact that it has a paintable surface, although I haven't decided if I am going to paint it.  I have heard that painting radiators reduces their efficiency and I don't know if that applies to this heater.  
The less than good:  We have had this heater on in a rather small room (10 by 10) with a hot water radiator system, and over night it only seems to bring the temperature about 5 degrees above the temperature in the rest of the house.  Based on other reviews of this heater and others, I ordered the plug in thermostat.  I think I will return it because I won't ever need to turn off the heat because it is too hot.  Also, the passive heating means that it takes a while for the heater to have any impact on the temperature of the room.  I turn it on at 6 pm so that the room will be comfortable when the central heat goes down to 60 degrees at 10 pm.  My final concern is that the heater says it can be mounted at any height, but that it works best closest to the ground -- 6 to 18 inches above the baseboard.  I was hoping to install it higher so my baby wouldn't accidentally burn himself on it.  Since heat rises, I should have realized this flaw in my logic.  
I don't think this is a bad product, it just isn't as good as I wanted it to be for $150.