ID: B0013FLTNS-R4MPAP6BLJD0E-A34KMXMZTKPF45
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB134LL-15-4-inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: A34KMXMZTKPF45
ReviewerName: Richard D. Silvius Jr.
Date: February 25, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great machine, one very tiny problem!
Content:
My Windows XP desktop has really been showing its age lately, and as a college student I've been increasingly frustrated by not having a laptop. The computer labs at school are always packed, and professors are increasingly assigning online activities and posting lecture notes online -- all of which it is very helpful to be able to access during class, without having to print out a ton of materials from the web at home. Besides school, I also planned to migrate all my photo processing and video editing tasks over from the XP machine to this one.
I have generally had to reinstall Windows XP on a fairly regular basis to keep my desktop running like new, and I'd been hearing a lot of things about how macs don't have a lot of the problems associated with windows. Ultimately, I decided to definitely go mac after trying Vista on a few different PC's and hating it. 
I started doing my research. The new macbook pros had recently come out (the ones with the "unibody"), but after reading myriad complaints about the super-glossy screen just being obnoxious, I hastily bought this previous generation of Macbook pro with the matte screen option. If you look at it, the specs are nearly the same. OK, the RAM speed is 667 instead of 1066. The video card was the previous model from nvidia, although with 512 mb of dedicated RAM. To get comparable specs in the latest generation, you'd have to pay a LOT more (over half of a thousand dollars, *since amazon is so good at censoring dollar figures*)
Anyway, I've been using my mac for about two weeks now, and here are my thoughts:
This machine runs great. It's fast. I really like OS X so far. The touchpad is great, and HUGE compared to others I've seen. AND it still has a button, which I prefer to the new MB pro's giant buttonless pad. Scrolling with two fingers is SO much better than a mouse wheel or clicking the scroll on-screen.  I purchased 4 gigs of RAM to upgrade this (it comes with 2). It's a cheap upgrade, and I definitely noticed a difference right away. I'd recommend it. Someday I plan on upgrading the hard drive to a 500gb 7200rpm -- again, not much money for a huge upgrade. The factory drive is just fine for now though. 
Anyway, there was one little problem. After using the machine for a couple of days, I noticed a dead pixel on the screen! It's about a quarter of the way from the left side, in the middle of the screen. I really had to think about sending the unit back for another one. If I hadn't already installed a whole bunch of software and pretty much "moved in", I probably would have exchanged it. I read about the problem online, and it's not uncommon. Apple doesn't even consider it a warranty issue unless there are 5 or more bad pixels. I thought about it, and after using the machine for a couple more days, I realized that in practice I simply did not notice the dead pixel. I generally only see it if I look for it -- and unless the screen is all white, it's pretty much invisible the rest of the time. I decided just to keep the unit, and the pixel really hasn't bugged me since, although I subtracted a star because for the price, I really feel the screen ought to be flawless. 
Anyway, at the end of the day this is a fine machine -- I'd highly recommend it -- especially if you think the high gloss screen of the new model will be a problem, or if you are faced with having to get a Vista machine. I'd definitely recommend OS X over Vista or XP. Hope that helps!!
PS, I've noticed that the price on these has gone up appreciably. If you think you want the older model, you might be running out of time! All glossy screen haters are gonna be snatching 'em up!