ID: B001D8S9E2-R2JR63PLI9TQQA-A1S3CS1P4MDX1Z
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB466LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1S3CS1P4MDX1Z
ReviewerName: T. A. Dinh
Date: October 19, 2008
Helpful: 15 of 24
Rating: 4.0
Title: White Macbook 2.4 GHZ "VS" Aluminum Macbook 2.4 GHZ
Content:
Edit: Also the Firewire issue I've been hearing about. I'm a Business Major students and see no need in using a Firewire. I've never used a Firewire in my entire life. I mean harddrive fits just great in USB ports and also camcorder and other stuff I never dealt with that stuff. If I also have to, I'm sure I can do it without the need of Firewire. So I say let Firewire go because I a business major student don't need it.
What I'd like to say is that I read all the reviews on the new Macbook on Amazon and Cnet before buying my new one. I was still convinced to buy one because I think in my point of view its alot better overall than my last Macbook (White, 2.4 Ghz, 2 GB ram). Although they increased the price of the notebook, I feel that its still worth the price because it is nicknamed "Macbook Pro Mini".
First of all the display issue. I notice is looks alot better than the old Macbook, like so much brighter. I don't know why people are complaining about the screen so much because I can see just fine on my Macbook everything, no glares whatsoever. I just put my desktop background as the big Earth and all black and I don't see any bad in this. I mean it looks just great. I would think that maybe if you go on the Macbook outdoors alot it may be an issue but I'm a student and I do most of my work indoors (classrooms, library, home). Go ahead to the Apple store and you'll see display is much brighter and also the screen looks just so great that you want it even more. I have no problems with the display but if your eyes don't like it, well, myns do and many others who purchase it too.
Next the Macbook is almost like a Macbook Pro but smaller and not as powerful. The Macbook now has backlit keyboards, it has a much better stronger graphic card (5x better wow), and also the front but has gone up from the 600s to 1000s (DDR3). Also the battery life has increased and weight decreased. These feature you'll find on a Macbook Pro which the cheapest before were around the $2k range. Now you can get one for less (student discount for me =]).
Graphic card I can notice is actually much better. I played some FPS and RPG games and I notice its so much better than my old Macbook. The FSB is noticeably better and my multitasking skills in the Macbook is alot faster now. The battery life I can notice lasts that extra half an hour longer than my old one, and the half pound weight is just great. Even the thinner Macbook fits even better in my backpack.
I put this Macbook inside my Brenthaven case (great case by the way) and the old Macbook took up a big space of compartment but now because I have a thinner one its much roomier inside there now so I don't have to worry about all my books squashing the Macbook.
Also the big deal probably, the aluminum. The aluminum is much more powerful and because its a big deal about the Uni-Body closure. They were right. I think this aluminum feels better than the Macbook Air. I don't know but carrying this thing you feel more secured about it getting scratches or squashed by a heavy book. This is like a Superman armor compared to the old plastic one.
I carry my Macbook everyday to school and I have to walk up this gigantic hill to class everyday. Knowing that the Macbook is made of aluminum and won't get hurt in my backpack makes me feel alot more confident (I don't throw my Macbook in the backpack by the way, there's a special compartment they made that fits the Macbook exactly perfect fit and padded =D )
The touchpad glass is so great. I mean the button pushing thing is hard at first but its been two days and I love it so much. Also the new Multi-Touch gestures on MACBOOKS are so awesome now. I mean I can do so much things now without having to reach for the keyboard or moving the trackpad as much. The expose with the four fingers trackpad is so great. I mean this is going to change my notebook experience, Apple is so great to design these gestures it makes it easier to use the computer.
Overall, the screen isn't an issue, but the price is =[. But I can notice it being much faster, and also I can see that the Aluminum is great on the Macbook. This Macbook is exactly like a Macbook Mini, if your a student or someone who doesn't need all that powerful graphics but wants to be almost on par with it. This is the Macbook for you. I don't regret my decision in buying this Macbook at all.