ID: B001I902HS-R12WEUQ23SATFX-A3OIQ3T0OIKY66
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Panasonic-MC-CG885-OptiFlow-Lightweight-Canister
ReviewerID: A3OIQ3T0OIKY66
ReviewerName: L. J. Schrader
Date: December 22, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: got RUGS? Love it! got WOOD? okay.
Content:
First- We have been a Kenmore vac family for many years and currently own a Kenmore that is nearly identical to this Panasonic model. I found that they both perform nearly identically as well. So, what would make me choose this vac (or not)?
PROS:
GREAT suction for carpets and a number of easy to change settings. I even had to adjust the settings to a milder one because it was more powerful than my previous vac (even though they are the same 12 amp).
EASY to maneuver cannister with wheels that seem to glide as you go. NO more DRAGGING the body around because the angle is not quite right. (My Kenmore has fixed wheels that do not spin at multiple angles like this does).
LONG hose makes moving the cannister less frequent and a decently long cord meant LESS plug changes.
LIGHTER WEIGHT and cute to look at....easy to store with relatively compact size and standing feature that holds the head in place by sliding into into a slot on back (my Kenmore has this feature too).
LOTS of filtration and easy to change bag and filter.
CONS:
NO bare floor BRUSH attachment. I realize that this is considered a bare floor model that works on both carpeted and bare surfaces with an easy switch at the handle. 
BUT. Because you are using the larger head all the time, you just can't reach everywhere. Corners and under cabinets have to be aimed at precisely and though this will fit in and around SOME furniture,other places I just could not get to without removing the head. The only option then is to use ONLY the wand, the small upholstery brush or the crevice attachment. 
My Kenmore has the bare floor "friendly" head, too, but also has the wide brush floor attachment for those slightly tighter places and it does make it easierto get to more areas when you have a more compact attachment available-which this model does NOT).
FALLOUT. Simply put, the large head on my hard floors occasionally spit out what it picked up (though this did NOT happen when using it on carpet). That means sometimes sliding over crumbs, etc., a couple of times to get it picked up....which makes me wonder if it is picking up as much as it could over the entire hard floor areas. Again, a large floor brush attachment seems to get the little stuff this might miss but it is not available with this model.
HEAVY HANDED. Because you are using a power driven head all of the time it can get a little heavy. Again, on carpets you NEED the power but when on smooth floors you might be able to use a lighter attachment (if it were available) to breeze over it instead of PUSHING a heavy head. 
COST:  This model is significantly more expensive than a very similar model by another manufacturer. I could not really justify that big of a price difference based on performance.
BOTTOM LINE:
I think this is a great vac for CARPETED floors,  but only DECENT for smooth surfaces. 
I would recommend this only to people with primarily carpeted homes. 
Seems like it would be good for reducing allergens, but many vacs have similar filtration, so it is probably about EQUAL to other models in that aspect.
Seems a bit PRICEY for what you get (considering my VERY similar Kenmore was at least $100- less expensive). However, it does seem well made.
Buying a vacuum is difficult since there are SO many models and features to compare...I think this one falls in the MID range. Does a good job but not sure it is supoerior to any other similar model, even those priced better.