ID: B0012OGF6Q-RJ4BJE0V9F2M9-A3BSJQ1PFL9223
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G
ReviewerID: A3BSJQ1PFL9223
ReviewerName: L. Parker "YoungSmart1"
Date: June 17, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great for entry-level dSLR
Content:
I'm just getting into photography, so this review will be quite non-technical. I think the D60 is a good camera for those just starting. The D40 would be an equally good choice, but the D60 does have more megapixels, which is good for making larger prints and for massive cropping of images. It also has the sensor cleaner, for whatever good that is worth. It has a few other minor differences from the D40, probably not making it worth the price difference between the 2 based on features alone.
However, the D60 kit includes a VR version of the 18-55mm lens, whereas the D40 kit lens is not a VR lens. Most will say that one doesn't need VR at these focal lengths, which is mostly true except that for someone just starting out, my hand is pretty shaky and when shooting at the 55mm end and/or in low light conditions where faster shutter speed might be hard to come by, I personally feel like the VR is helpful.
So to me, the few different features AND the VR lens make the D60 a worthwhile purchase in my opinion. If money is an issue, get the D40 and don't look back, because the practical differences are minor, but if you can swing the extra for the D60, I think it is worth it.
I personally am in love with my D60 and with photography in general. The D60 has been a dream to learn on. It's not loaded down with features that I don't know how to use. It just has the basics, making it a good platform to learn on. The image quality from the camera is excellent. the kit lens is good for a kit lens, although you will likely want to purchase other lenses as you learn. The 55-200mm VR lens makes a great inexpensive addition for those just starting out to have decent range coverage to experiment with.
In all i'm very happy with my purchase and when I'm ready to graduate to a body with more features, I just might keep my D60 around. Its a great compact camera that is a dream to travel with (as far as dSLRs go anyway). I take the camera with me all the time. Obviously its not a point & shoot to carry in my pocket, but when I know I'm going to be somewhere where I want more control then a p&s, i am comfortable carrying my d60 because its pretty compact as far as dSLRs go.