ID: B001D0E4DA-R3MMU8S1E309Y2-A1G7K03N562FSB
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-250-Internet-Media-Tablet
ReviewerID: A1G7K03N562FSB
ReviewerName: giants68 "Gadget geek"
Date: June 5, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 6
Rating: 3.0
Title: Nice concept, not worth the retail price.  2 DVR stations not working.
Content:
I own an Archos AV 500 that is a couple years old and I love it.  I saw a very good deal (I thought it was a price mistake) on an Archos 5 250GB + DVR station on Amazon and jumped on it.  Just so you know, I'm a total gadget geek and do IT for a living, so I am well-versed in electronics and own multiple laptops, media players, etc.  I thought the Archos 5 would be a great addition and travel companion given the 250GB capacity, wi-fi/internet features and my previous experience with the AV 500.
My Archos 5 arrived first and out of the box it was nice and shiny but heavier than I thought it would be.  I was able to get it connected to my wireless router running WPA2 security and it downloaded and installed the firmware upgrade without problem.  The virtual keyboard took a little getting used to because there is a green and a blue "alt" key to get to all the numbers and symbols.  Since it's a different layout than my blackberry, smartphone and iPod Touch it takes a little while to hunt the symbols you need.  I found the touch screen to be responsive and I actually seemed to type better on the Archos 5 than my iPod Touch.  Using the included USB cable took a LONG time to charge though (I think the documentation says 8 hours)!  Also, a pet peeve is that you have to use the funky USB cable for data transfer and charging.  My AV 500 used a standard mini-USB cable to transfer data and a power adapter that was the same as my Sony PSP.  So it was much easier to find spare cable/charger.
I was able to easily transfer music and photos from my Macbook to the Archos 5 as it just shows up as a removable drive.  When I connected the Archos 5 to one of my Windows laptops, it showed up as a removable media device (as expected) however Media Player 11 does not show it as a device and therefore can't sync music/playlists to it.  I did a normal drag n' drop but it does not display the album art on the Archos.  I haven't had time yet to try connecting it to a different PC to see if it properly recognized, but this is slightly annoying.  I have not had time to try any of my videos yet either, but one thing I loved about my AV 500 was that it had some sort of special license that let you connect a DVD player and record commercial DVD's directly the AV 500.  This feature let me bring several movies along with me (AV 500 had 30GB HDD) and I do not believe the Archos 5 has this feature.
Internet browsing is just OK, which for an "Internet Media Table" is very disappointing.  The Archos 5 is supposed to support Flash 9 but just visiting the SF Giants homepage, it shows a Flash icon.  I hope Archos will offer upgraded Flash support, but somehow I doubt it.
I received the DVR station the following week and it does NOT work as advertised.   I connected it using HDMI cable to my Vizio tv and nothing.  I tried 2 more HDMI cables, including a Monster cable that I use for my Dish, and no display.  I then tried component cables (Red, Green, Blue), S-video and composite (yellow, red, white).  NO DISPLAY to tv.  I tried connecting it to an old tv w/composite cables and I got black and gray bars.  So I contacted Amazon and they sent out a replacement (thanks for the great customer service Amazon!).  I received the 2nd DVR station yesterday and almost the same results.  I got it to display once with HDMI, toggled back and forth between the lcd and the TV.  Then I undocked, redocked and it wouldn't work again.  I tried the variety of cables and again on the 2nd tv and got it to work one more time with composite.  I called Archos support and amazingly did not sit on hold and was connected to someone that sounded like they were in the U.S.!  The girl was nice but didn't sound that technical.  She put me on hold several times and ran me through testing w/different cables.  She said unfortunately I'm probably just having REALLY bad luck w/the DVR stations and got 2 bad ones because I was doing everything right.  The Archos was definitely recognizing the DVR stations b/c it was getting charged and I was getting the TV out menus that don't show unless it detects a dock.  I was able to get the Archos to get input from a digital tv tuner to the dock with no problem and recorded shows no problem.
All in all, I'm only satisfied with my Archos 5 because of the low price I got it at, but would never have paid $350+ for it.  Heck, I wouldn't have paid $200 for it.  Unfortunately it will not replace my iPod touch or netbook for travel at this time.  It also sucks that Archos charges like $20 each for extra add-ons that allow it to play additional audio/video formats, etc. and you have to buy one of the variety of "snap on" docks to get a normal charger and things like USB host capabilities.  All that was included with my AV 500.