ID: B001KYJ52E-R3V145ZSE1EVCV-A32LGAG9PNRVR5
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Technivorm-Thermo-Moccamaster-Thermal-Carafe
ReviewerID: A32LGAG9PNRVR5
ReviewerName: pehren
Date: December 19, 2009
Helpful: 12 of 14
Rating: 2.0
Title: Unimpressed
Content:
Researched a number of coffee makers before deciding upon the MM based on online reviews.  My single positive observation is the MM brings the water to an ideal brewing temperature of 200 deg F.  Allow me to continue.  I purchased the Thermo Carafe model as I do not like my coffee sitting on a heated burner and would typically transfer my coffee to a separate carafe after brewing.  The problem with the MM carafe is the lid does not have a filler valve mechanism that allows the carafe to fill with the lid in place.  If brewing only a half pot of coffee the carafe acts like a chimney allowing the heat to escape.  The result is a warm cup of coffee.  I'm constantly putting my cup of coffee in the microwave to get it to an enjoyable temperature.  Next problem is the shower head, for lack of a better term.  Its rectangular shape does not thoroughly and uniformly saturate the ground coffee.  Open the lid on the brewing cone and the periphery of the coffee grounds are still dry.  The water simply funnels through the center of the grounds.  The only way to get the grounds fully saturated is to close the drip valve of the cone and let the cone fill with water.  The problem here is quite obvious.  If brewing more than six cups of coffee one has to babysit the thing to make sure it doesn't overflow all over your counter top.  My final issue with the MM is the overall design itself.  Kind of looks like something your clever, creative, tinkering grandfather cobbled together in his basement shop out of old coffee maker components , tupperware and sheet metal he had lying about.  Separate lids for the cone and water reservoir that aren't integrated with the machine, poor water delivery and distribution, cheap water pump safety switch (eventually started to stick in the on position).  At this price there are better coffee brewing systems available.