ID: B0016J27YQ-R1YNBSI5W7JWOX-AO4RDTZLAGCJ5
Category: AirConditioners
Product: NewAir-AF-330-Portable-Evaporative-Purifier
ReviewerID: AO4RDTZLAGCJ5
ReviewerName: Mrs. K "From the wilds of the Mojave"
Date: August 16, 2007
Helpful: 12 of 19
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great for Bedroom Use!
Content:
We purchased this because the cool from the big evaporative cooler on our house just wasn't making it through our den/office into our bedroom (even with the windows open to various widths to pull it through). The next step would've involved having a HVAC guy and a plumber out to the house to install another evaporative cooler unit ($$$). 
This is a great little machine for the most part. It holds enough water to run for 24 hours without refilling it. You don't have to worry about hooking it up to a garden hose(!). The wheels are great. It has a really long power cord. The remote is nice. Compared to a/c, it uses very little electricity. It's relatively quiet -- just a tiny bit louder than the big oscillating fan it replaced. It's just an air whooshing sound.
The instruction booklet was lacking a few things -- as the other reviewer reported, there is nothing about what to do with the charcoal filter. But you have to consider that if you have a window open to adequately ventilate for this thing, there really isn't much of a point to having an air filter. (When you live in a desert, you learn to live with dust.) Honestly, I chose this over the cheaper model because of the little blue window on the front that shows the water level -- the HEPA thing didn't really matter. 
I wish they wouldn't call these things swamp coolers. It refers to the musty smell some of them get in more humid climates. But I think it makes some people think that means it's great for living in a swamp. I live in a desert where the outside humidity ranges from 7 to 15 percent most of the time. It was 104 degrees yesterday. Evaporative coolers work great here -- better than the underwhelming and electricity-hogging a/c in my last house. It's actually nice to have some humidity in the house -- reduces our dry, itchy skin problems and static. But if you live with higher outside humidity, this technology just isn't going to work. I repeat -- it will not work where it is humid.
The vendor shipped it several hours after we ordered it and we received it the next day (we are relatively close).