ID: B0012Y89JW-R3JK5LHW8WABJY-A4UGMKUSX9XHI
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-Digital-XSI-Camera-Body
ReviewerID: A4UGMKUSX9XHI
ReviewerName: Robert Stone
Date: February 21, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: A Great DSLR Going Strong After 2 Years
Content:
I bought this when it first came out in 2008 prior to a trip to Disney. It replaced an original Digital Rebel (6.3 MP) which was also a great camera (which I passed down ?up to my Dad). Getting this camera has taken my photography to a whole new level - it is a great camera. It is easy to use and takes sharp pictures. The user interface is well done and will be second nature to anyone with experience with a Canon (even point and shoots). The easiest thing to do is to use it in "full auto" mode for a while but don't get complacent and keep it there for the life of the camera - try turning that dial and repeating shots so you can learn all that this wonderful unit is capable of. At the price point this is really too good to pass up.
If you are considering this camera vs. the point and shoot variety, I have found the main two advantages of DSLR to be the lack of delay in shutter release and of course the clarity of the pictures with the larger lenses. The first issue is often of paramount importance in taking pictures of kids and pets - they never stay still for long! With regards to picture quality, it is interesting that manufacturers "push" the megapixels so much on the point and shoots. PLEASE don't make the mistake of thinking that 12 MP on a point and shoot will come anywhere near the pictures from this camera (provided a good lens is attached). There really is no comparison. I have several point and shoot cameras (which I have also reviewed) and though they trump the DSLR for portability (or ability to immerse in water for the D10) there is no comparison for picture quality. 
I have recently upgraded lenses with the addition of two "L" lenses (which work great with the XSI) and may upgrade to the new Rebel T2i in the future for both improved sensitivity (ISO 6400 on that camera, 1600 max on this one) and the ability to record HD video, which this camera does not have. That said, this camera has served me very well and will continue to do so. As another reviewer pointed out, the battery life on this one is terrific - I bought a second battery but have only rarely used it (though I rotate them, of course). 
In summary, this is a terrific camera which I would highly recommend to anyone considering "making the jump" to DSLR.