ID: B001D0E4CQ-R1Q4QR7OKIA33A-A228Y377WQME2A
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-120-Internet-Media-Tablet
ReviewerID: A228Y377WQME2A
ReviewerName: Robert Ponsler
Date: October 14, 2009
Helpful: 0 of 2
Rating: 2.0
Title: its oks
Content:
i bought this as a brithday persent for my self back in augest when i was looking into  a new media player for me. i was tired of an ipod becuase thye dont work well in linux and the archos had it in the description that it worked with linux well. so i got the archos but it has been nothing but a hasle sense i got it. the frist one the internal speaker went out on me and the screen was very picky so i sent it back to amazon to get a new one. when i got the new one it worked great till about a week ago and than it stoped working too. now i am very careful with my media players/ electronics so i didnt drop it or anything liek that. but the drive went out in this one so i tried calling archos to talk to them about it becuase at the tiem amazon was out and i couldnt get a new one form them. well that too was  a desastor. i was on hold for 2 hrs before anyone piced up one time and the other 4 or 5 times i tired calling them i gave up after about an hr. and the one time i did get threw the customer service rep was rude to me for no reason. also watch out when u buy the plugins they liek to duoble charge sometimes and getting money back from them is like pulling teeth. i finally went threw my bank becuase of it. the video also stinks if u liek to watch cartoons. for some reason cartoons never worked well on it thye always got blurred for some reason. so dont get it if u want to use it for cartoons of any type. the flash is also spotty it says it supports flash 9 but it never loaded any of my flash projects becuase i needed flash 9 for it. over all if u need an mp3 player and the ocasionall movie or 2 get an ipod classic. i ended up with the itouch beucase it was like the archos more with being almsot a replacement for a computer. and if u ever have to talk to customer service its better to jsut return the archos to amazon or where ever u got it. alot easyer to deal with than archos is. this was my frist and last product from them becuase of their bad customer servvice and support.