ID: B0013FJBX8-RYWL83EQ0HPG3-AA5PFZ3V6W8H2
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB470LL-15-4-Inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: AA5PFZ3V6W8H2
ReviewerName: Stephanie Sane
Date: November 12, 2008
Helpful: 46 of 70
Rating: 2.0
Title: Sometimes New & Improved isn't Better
Content:
The new MacBooks were out and boy was I ever excited. I watched Steve Jobs' performance, saw the machines were really and truly to die for, just like he was saying they were. These were the next best thing since sliced bread. I had to have one and I had to have it now. I went right online to the Apple store and ordered mine right up. Then I did my last backup of my fifteen inch MacBook, a machine I really loved, but I was going to love the new one so much more, so backup complete, I put my baby on eBay and seven days later I packed it up and shipped it out.
And for a whole two days I was sans MacBook, but then I got the knock. The FedEx guy was at the door with my new MacBook. I was one happy girl. Okay, I was a little disappointed to see I couldn't hook my new baby up to my twenty-three inch Apple Cinema Display, because Apple changed the connection on the new MacBooks and they didn't supply an adapter and only one company makes those adapters. Guess who? You guessed it. Apple! Was this a way to sneakily get a little extra money for their new machines? Shame on you Mr. Jobs.
My neighbors are in Paris for three weeks and I'm watching their daughters while they are away, they're six and eight and they were as excited as me about my new toy. The really loved the bright screen, the way the colors just pop out at you. And that night we lay in my double bed, me in the middle, a girl on each side, lights out as we watched Monster's Inc, then Robots. What a beautiful machine for watching movies on in the dark. What a beautiful display, what eye popping color, there is just no better way to cuddle up with a couple children and watch a movie.
And if I was a guy I could throw away my bathroom mirror and shave with that display. I can't work with it in any kind of light though, but it's perfect for checking my makeup. And I don't really like Leopard all that much. I was running Tiger 10.4.11 and loving it. Fast it was, faster than this, especially with my virtual machines.
Oh how I wished I had my old baby back. What a stupid display. How come I didn't think about glossy versus matte. Glossy is fine for movies in the dark, fine for shaving too, I suppose, but not fine for working at twenty-some thousand feet with all those overhead lights on. I suppose I could ask the flight attendant to ask all the other passengers to shut 'em off. I suppose when I'm working out on the patio I could sort of rotate my machine as the sun rotates in the sky.
What to do, what to do? I'll tell you what I did. I e-mailed the guy who stole my baby from me via that eBay auction and asked him would he like to trade for an almost brand spanking new MacBook that only went on one short flight with me and two little girls to San Francisco and back. He wanted to know what was the catch. I told him I hated the screen. He said he'd call FedEx straightaway. I told him I would too. The machines, the old and the new, probably passed each other somewhere over Kansas or Iowa. Now I've got my old baby back, am out a few hundred dollars, but I'm a little wiser now. Matte makes a difference. If you're going to be looking at a screen all day, glossy is not the way to go. Five stars for the nice design, minus two stars for the screen and minus another star for not putting in that video connector, which I threw in when I traded and got my baby back, and that leaves two stars and I'm being generous.
I love you Apple, I really do, but you missed the boat with this one.
Reviewed by Stephanie Sane