ID: B0013FLU96-RNKSI28JINX44-A1FP8QH7LXIVP8
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB133LL-15-4-inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: A1FP8QH7LXIVP8
ReviewerName: Thomas W. Meagher "keypusher"
Date: April 13, 2008
Helpful: 10 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent
Content:
Bought mine refurb ~6 months ago.  I have had no problems whatsoever, and it has met or exceeded all demands I have placed at its feet.  This a powerful and well designed laptop in every regard.
Operating System:  #1 Reason to buy an Apple laptop.  I run Windows and Linux on my desktop, but for a laptop there is no reason not to go with Apple.  OSX is better in every aspect than Windows, and getting Linux to work well on most laptops is a pain in the @%$.
Screen - #1 Reason to get a MBP over a MB.  Get the matte screen.  It is simply the best laptop screen on the market.  Hands down.  I have received compliments on the actual screen from people sitting next to me.  When you see a Dell or even a Lenovo next to the MBP, their screen just looks incredibly sad, dull and washed out while the the LED backlit matte MBP is very bright and crisp.
Size/Weight:  Weighs the same as the normal MB, but slightly larger.  Five pounds is actually quite light for a laptop of this caliber.  I would prefer a 13" form factor but the MBP wins in other regards, and the larger screen is certainly welcome.  If SIZE is a major issue, you might want to consider the MB, if WEIGHT is the main issue, consider the MBA.  If you carry around a bunch of other heavy stuff or need to travel ultra-light, this may not be the laptop for you.  However, if all you carry around is a laptop, a (paper) notebook, and some papers or a book, it's not an even an issue.  I carry this laptop a few miles walking almost every day and I don't even notice it.
Quality: Top notch.  Feels solid, unlike many PC manufacturers Apple uses top quality components for ram, motherboard, power supply, etc.  If anything fails, Apple support has always been refreshingly helpful and accommodating.
Metal Case:  If it wasn't for the white plastic case, I might have bought the regular Macbook.  I think the metal case is more professional, but this may just be personal taste.  Realistically, the plastic MB is probably more durable and alledgedly gets better WiFi reception.
Power:  Used for extensive coding, video editing, photoshop, video playback, running Matlab simulations, etc.  Hasn't failed me yet.
Battery:  Decent battery life, nothing amazing.
In conclusion, if you need ultra-light, get a Macbook Air.  For all-around use or students, I think the Macbook is the best bet.  This is because I slightly prefer the Macbook keyboard, mag-latch, and form factor.  But for the pro user that wants power, expandability, an amazing screen and a professional look, the Macbook Pro is the best laptop on the market.