ID: B001BTCSI6-R2CXZLDPZI68OF-A2E1I4IUGOUKNB
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D700-12-1MP-Digital-Body
ReviewerID: A2E1I4IUGOUKNB
ReviewerName: Bestefar "Long-time Nikon user"
Date: June 17, 2009
Helpful: 34 of 118
Rating: 1.0
Title: Caveat Emptor
Content:
OK, Amazon asked me (by email) to review this camera so I'm going to bite. First of all, I must say that I am a long-time Nikon user. I currently own two film bodies(N90S and F100) and one DSLR (D200). I've used primarily the D200 for the past 3  years. Before that, I collected a lot of "film" Nikkors as well as my film bodies, so that was one reason I wanted to go FX. So I'm not a troll or have any axe to grind with Nikon. Generally their products have performed very well for me and when (rarely) I have needed their customer service, it has been good. I love the F100 and if I had time, I think I would still shoot film with it. But this review is about the D700 and unfortunately, the D700 is on its way back to Amazon for a refund. There was  a really bad spot on the sensor (many pixels were affected) that was visible on any image shot at ISO 400 or above. This "red spot" was even visible on jpegs on the normal size that opened with NX2 - no magnification. The main reason I am writing this review is to  let prospective buyers know you should thoroughly check out your new camera ASAP after receiving it. Thanks Amazon for you great return policy! This was a BIG investment for me. I have seen images from the D700 and they are really gorgeous but now I wonder how good Nikon's QA/QC is. I'm undecided if I'm going to try another sample as this has created work and anxiety that I don't need. I may stick with my D200 for awhile, as it still works great an produces nice images. I have no idea what the probability of getting a defective Nikon may be, but I sure would like to know the odds. I'm pretty sure that if I would not have been able to return the camera that Nikon would have made some sort of fix under warranty, but that would have been even more hassle and anxiety. Hence the title of this review. Good luck and I hope you get a good sample. I'm sure this would have been five stars if I had gotten a D700 with a good sensor.