ID: B0012OGF6Q-R3VJZMWPBYN66T-A1CT9CESGKHB3V
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-10-2MP-Digital-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G
ReviewerID: A1CT9CESGKHB3V
ReviewerName: MODY
Date: September 23, 2008
Helpful: 5 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Awesome Camera Very Recomended!
Content:
Actually I won't be talking again about the specification because all of you already know it. The D60 is my first DSLR camera I'm actually wasn't into photography that much, I just bought it because i asked a friend i want to take a quality pictures for my family because i had a regular annoying Casio camera which makes dots/noise in the pictures and ruins the moment of the photo, Any way he told me do you want the same photography as you see in the magazines or billboards i said yes i actually thought that all those pictures was like impossible and you need like i dunno graphic designer to do the work for you to make it so clean and sharp as they look and MAN I WAS WRONG..
1st day i bought this camera i took my 1st shot and i was like WOOOOOOOOOOOOOOW i never had a DSLR camera before i hate taking pictures but with this camera the first week i took over 13,000 pictures can you believe that awesome camera awesome quality and the help menu tought me a lot about photography i didn't even know anything about photography like what is ISO, Exposure etc.. it kept explaining everything in the menu and I'm here now buying the new D90 waiting for this babe to arrive.
Nikon makes the photography impossible to resist everyone this camera is worth every penny now i watch videos on You Tube and trying to learn and I'm buying bunch of lenses which costs me over $5000, it's hilarious actually, but i loved photography i keep taking shots for everything and i have like 700 GB hard disk full of pictures shot with my D60.
Please If you can afford it buy any lens than the one included the recommended is the 18-200 Nikon lens much better and have a very deep zoom and buy the 50 mm Nikon lens it's awesome for portraits shots and very very sharp. I can't believe my self talking about lenses and  cameras but it's worth it i loved and you'll love it.. Good Luck with your D60 ;)
P.S. I uploaded some images i shot with my D60 you'll find it in the customer images section but beware that pictures quality are much better than what you see here in amazon because amazon crops and compress the picture very bad which ruin everything in the picture.
Bye...