ID: B001D0E4EE-R1J8HG9T77QC1K-A32VMXSNKVN9QF
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-320-Internet-Media-Tablet
ReviewerID: A32VMXSNKVN9QF
ReviewerName: R. Macdonald
Date: December 21, 2008
Helpful: 10 of 12
Rating: 4.0
Title: Near perfect...but not perfect
Content:
Bought the Archos 7/320gb as a gift and have used and updated it so that it is run-ready prior to Christmas morning.  
Let me start by saying wireless routers and internet connectivity with personal computers have given me the fits over the years.  Not so here.  I'm not a tech geek (unfortunately), but I was wireless with a strong, portable signal in literally 3 minutes after the product was out of the box, happily surfing the internet.  It detected my home network and the rest was automatic, as long as you remember your WPA password/security code.  And within 15 minutes, of which 14 minutes was load time, the Archos 7 had detected all firmware updates and allowed me to install the free Archos plugins (warning, plugins require a PC/laptop...this is a PC supplement, not substitute).   
So...super-fast, user-friendly, easy to navigate, great touchscreen action, internet quite literally at your fingertips.  So far so good.  Some people have complained it's too heavy(???).  It's not.  What do you want, a frisbee to throw around?  If you want a 7-inch screen, it's going to be heavier than a cellphone or iPod touch, sorry.  So all-in-all, a no-brainer purchase, right?
Well...a few minor things.  First, the alarming potential for system freeze-up other website reviewers have talked about.  The device completely froze once prior to installing the latest firmware, within the first 2 minutes of turning it on.  Is there an "acceptable" amount of freeze-up on this $500 device?  Not in my book.  Hopefully the firmware updates continue to solve that.  
Also, no case or cover included..which is a pain because the finish is 1) slippery and 2) leaves prints EVERYWHERE.  My hands were clean and dry, and within 10 minutes of use, the Archos 7 looked like I had been eating a bucket of BBQ wings and using the Archos as a napkin.  Cheapest cover with screen access I've seen is $35.  And the display requires a (not included) stylus to avoid some serious backtracking.
Plus, to really get the most out of the 7, the DVR add-on is a must.  Cha-ching, $90 more.  (Plus side:  it's well worth the $$$ to transform the Archos 7 from very cool to absolutely awesome). 
And, the screen seems a little fuzzy to me despite all possible adjustments -- just slightly, but again for $500, the screen should be fuzz-less.  Some reviewers have said they prefer the Archos 5 because the resolution is better.  It's borderline to me whether I should give up the extra 2 screen inches and hope for better resolution from the Archos 5.  I will let the gift recipient decide that one. 
Finally:  Does anyone know why this product is advertised as Flash Player 9 compatible?  I installed all possible firmware updates and plug-ins.  I still get a solitary "F9" icon when I try to watch video episodes of 30 Rock or NCIS.  In other words, I can't watch my favorite shows on it!  If anyone has an answer or can post assistance, I'd sure appreciate it.  A UK reviewer also posted this exact same problem.  Comments welcome, as this Flash 9 issue could be a deal-breaker.
I'm sure Archos' attitude is:  don't like it?  Fine, try another 7-inch internet media tablet that can do all this stuff.  Oh what's that, there's not one?  Exactly.  All-in-all I'd recommend it for sure -- definitely for its uniqueness and "cool factor" -- but hopefully they keep the firmware coming, to iron out all the bugs.