ID: B001D8S9E2-R1TRCQODDN1DAW-A1FRKEPANEPZSD
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB466LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1FRKEPANEPZSD
ReviewerName: A. Chan
Date: November 1, 2008
Helpful: 8 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best Laptop I ever Owned!
Content:
I bought the 2.0GHz model at the Apple Store and I have to say that this laptop is simply the best. Sure there are some cons, but the pros outweigh them. 
First is the new design, the design is so much better than the old design although the old one is still pretty nice. You can still get that one for just under a thousand bucks, but I think the new ones are worth the extra cash. I would give design a 10/10. 
Next, the weight. The weight is noticeably lighter than the previous MacBook. It weights 4.5lb, which is pretty good. I would give the weight 9.5/10. It could have been a little lighter for something like this.
Features, yes there are lots. The iSight camera is great and the keyboard. I have to say that the backlit keyboard doesn't seem useful to me, as I am a touch typist who doesn't look at the keyboard much. Sure, it may look nicer, but I don't think it's worth the extra $300. The hard drive is 160GB, but after the formatting and OS X installed it was a little over 140GB. For $1299, Apple could have added a 250GB one. Of course, Apple has been known for high profit margins. I like how the SuperDrive is standard now. There are 2 USB 2.0 ports, but sadly Firewire has been removed. Although I don't really use it much, it would have been nice to have it there in case I needed it. The glass trackpad is a killer. It may take some time to get used to, but it's a nice touch. The multi-touch gestures are now in the MacBook and I find them very useful, especially the 4 finger gestures. For features, I would give it 9.5. The firewire would be the cause.
Performance. The performance is lightning fast. Although the processor is now 2.0GHz, I don't think there's a noticeable difference between the previous $1299 model. One of the things that made this happen would be the RAM. The new MacBooks are packed with 2GB of DDR3 RAM, which has better performance compared to DDR2. The new graphics card also contributed to this. Apple now uses the NVIDIA GeForce 9400M. It's still integrated, but it can get up to 5x faster than the Intel GMA X3100. For performance, I would give it a 10.
Some may find the glossy screen annoying, but I like it. I like how it's LED backlit now. Some users received the bad displays, but luckily I got the good one. For the display, I would give it a 9.4. 
The new aluminum enclosure is great and more durable than the previous plastic one. It feels more solid when it's carved from just one brick of aluminum.
I would recommend this computer to anyone looking for a brand new computer. The switch to OS X is worth it and I think people who want something durable which can last for a couple years would find this a good choice. Although the price tag seems a little high, you will find it a good thousand dollar spent.