ID: B001D8S9E2-R3RODDUG40QQ1F-A1IZGTJCLXB1TU
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB466LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1IZGTJCLXB1TU
ReviewerName: Dale Ellis "Shalmdi"
Date: April 16, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: Almost there
Content:
This has been my first Mac computer (I swore I wouldn't buy a Windows machine with Vista standard). I have been using it for gaming, web surfing, and document moding. I will be the first to admit that I am probably not using this thing to its fullest potential, but I have a pretty good feel for the ins and outs at this point. I did notice that several programs did not respond or function in ways that I needed them to, but this was easily fixed with some searches and a few downloads including the Mac version of OpenOffice. To be fair, I have done the same thing with every Windows computer I ever used. The computer also dual-booted an old copy of Windows XP without any incident, so I can run a couple of programs that do not support Mac. There is only one dark stain on this otherwise excellent item: the power cord.
After a few days using this product, I notice the central block of the charger cord was very hot when I used the laptop and charged it simultaneously. This was almost too hot to touch, and I still worry about scorching my couch with it. When I went online to investigate this, I found two disturbing facts. First, this is not unique. This is how most of the cords come, and no one seems willing to place it on anything overly flammable. Second, this can lead to a short life for my charger, and a replacement will cost about $80 and have the same problem. Most people seem to consider this a yearly expense for the book, but I am not thrilled about it. I love my Macbook, but if I had known this ahead of time, I may have bought a different model. Please consider this in your production decisions.
Conclusion!
Pros: Good Battery Life, Better performance than the components should provide, NOT Vista, Easily Customizable, No Noticeable Performance Glitches, Dual-booted XP perfectly.
Cons: Needs more USB ports, Very Bad Charger Cord!