ID: B001DN83ES-R9OUWYZFTK2ZB-A30H42WV7V7FC5
Category: Laptops
Product: Dell-Studio-1545-Midnight-Blue
ReviewerID: A30H42WV7V7FC5
ReviewerName: K. Myers
Date: June 26, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 1.0
Title: If I could give this laptop a negative star, I would!!!
Content:
Okay, where should I start?  Maybe that after 3 months of use, very minimal I might add, the hard drive crashed.  So, for over a week it didn't work while I had to wait for a REFURBISHED hard drive to be sent to me.  I didn't realize I would be an unpaid employee for Dell when I bought this laptop.  (I had to install the hard drive myself).  This whole process with the phone call and all was a good 10 hours. (Not counting time to reinstall all software, etc.)
Then, after 5 months of use, the laptop started shutting down on its own after about 30 minutes of use.  Needless to say, another lengthy call to Dell Support at which time they sent a technician to my home. (I had to wait a couple of days and he showed up 5 hours late.  I was more than a little irritable since I had left work early to meet him at my home when he as supposed to show up.)  Come to find out, he replaced the mother board and AC adaptor. (I mentioned the fact that the optical drive was acting up as well, issue not addressed) (Again, not to mention I had to reinstall all software again.)
Well, a WHOLE month later, the computer wouldn't boot, so after 5 hours on Dell Support, the technician had me reinstall the operating system and all drivers. (Not to mention after that, I had to reinstall software AGAIN, getting the picture???)  Well, AC adaptor is acting up again, optical drive still trying to eject a disc that is not in the drive, and the computer so slow I can't hardly stand to use it.  Called support again, she told me the previous technician incorrectly instructed me on how to fix the problem.  Had me take the computer to the original settings.  So guess what I'm doing now?? You guessed it, reinstalling the software for 5th time in 6 months!!!
So basically, unless you have the time and want a hobby of being on tech support and installing hardware/software, do NOT buy this laptop.
I'm just wondering, does Dell ever have the policy of if the computer is a piece of crap, that they will replace it?  I keep getting denied for my request. 
Hope this was helpful.