ID: B001FA1O0E-R1SSCFB4PSC96Q-AMP7TQRWAIE84
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-touch-Generation-Previous-Model
ReviewerID: AMP7TQRWAIE84
ReviewerName: Adrian the Complex Lonely "Spreading love and...
Date: March 20, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Enjoyable to the max. 4.5 stars.
Content:
The iPod Touch, Generation II graced this earth sometime in September of 2008. I wanted one sometime after, but didn't get around to getting one until about a week ago. But it was worth the wait!
The black device known as the Touch is great. It has a gorgeous glass screen that displays colors perfectly and beautifully. If you turn to the back of the device, you can see that it is indeed an "iPod" and how many Gigabytes the iPod has. For kicks, I even use the back for a mirror!
The sound on the iPod is pretty good. Even without the headphones, if  there isn't any/much noise and clatter going on, you can hear the music or video or movie pretty well without headphones so people complaining about the sound without headphones are insane. It's not a car you are in, it's just an iPod. And for that, the sound works great.
The actual touch screen feature, unless you have a touch-featured phone takes a bit of getting used to at first. I, having an Apple iPod nano 4 GB Silver (3rd Generation) OLD MODEL for a year and a half or so, and knowing it pretty much inside and out, was still a bit confused for a little while. But I got over it. Picking songs or videos, moving it from the up side to its side to switch from cover flow mode to album mode is not only easy but cool-looking.
The applications (or apps) and their ideas seem pretty cool, but the games (that I have played so far) don't really cut it. I haven't played many at all, but if it's not geared towards a little kid (I'm soon to be 25) it's something that loses its novelty fast. The apps I looked forward to are the iTunes store or even the weather app which I used for the first time today. I also wanted to check out the amazon app which I do have and used today but was disappointed that you can't rate other peoples' works. I know it's just an iPod Touch though and it's a minor quibble. 
Battery life isn't bad. It could be better, but I get decent play on mine and it lasts some odd hours. Not 8, 10, or 12 like it SAYS it does, but maybe 5 or 6 while playing music and the odd video or two.
Wi-Fi is a peace of cake when the connection around you is open. It automatically loads to what app you are trying to use that requires the internet once you open that particular app. I haven't any other experience with, say, a private connection. Not yet at least. I will update this once I get a router and play around with my Touch some more at home (if this review is even relevant still). :D
All in all, it's not a good device but an extraordinary one. I have some minor problems with it (and this won't matter to anyone but me) but updating from a nano to a Touch, when looking at the composers to a song, the names no longer slide slowly so you can see who composed that particular work (or in my case, who wrote that track because I put the actual lyricists down instead). Although radio kinda sucks these days, I think it'd be nice to tune into the local radio stations with an FM Tuner but sadly, the Touch lacks that too. Also, the batter life could be a bit longer. However, on the upside, the thing charges pretty fast.
I must say it was 258.11 well spent!