ID: B00138MVBY-R3FM2R9SAFE2T7-A2HMGVOR00A7MC
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Sony-DSLRA300K-Digital-SteadyShot-Stabilization
ReviewerID: A2HMGVOR00A7MC
ReviewerName: S. Teeney
Date: November 11, 2008
Helpful: 14 of 17
Rating: 3.0
Title: Not all it should be
Content:
I purchased this camera about 6 weeks ago with the optional Sony 75-300 mm lens.  I took over 1100 pictures, including landscape, air show (w/ 300 lens) and on vacation in mountain terrain.  I should note this was my first camera purchase in over 5 yrs, having used a Sony Mavica 5MP camera all these years.  On auto mode the pictures were hit or miss, sometimes the sky was washed out in color, I'm talking about taking one picture after the other just seconds apart on a sunny cloudless day, other times it looked fine.  I used aperature and shutter priority modes with mixed results, again just inconsistent exposure one shot to the next.  It did not help that I got dust on the sensor when I put the very first lens on!
The one constant on all the pictures regardless of which mode I used was a lack of sharpness with either lens, in any zoom range.  I have read the kit lenses are not the best and that detail suffers, I have to agree.  When I looked at photo's taken using my old 5MP I noticed no difference, and acturally preferred the old camera's quality.  I'm sure in an experienced DSLR user the results would have been different.  In the end, the issue of dust on the sensor, did not realize this is common among DSLR camera's (of note I tried the camera's cleaning mode to no avail), the lack of pop in the pictures (a $500 lens upgrade would take care of that I imagine)and on top of that lugging around a bag with the other lens just took the fun out of taking pictures.  I now know I was not ready or did not realize how much time a DSLR would require.  So I returned the package, and have now purchased a prosumer camera, much easier to operate!  I wrote this review mainly for people like me that have used a simple point and shoot for a few years and got carried up in all the hype the DSLR camera's have gotten lately.  They will take the best pictures in the right hands, but for me an upgrade to DSLR was just too much of a jump.  I gave 3 stars for disappointing detail and softness of the lenses.  Just know what your getting into.