ID: B001XURPQS-R2P0ONOTD6WFWM-A1LNKGWIPF39ZR
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-T1i-Digital-18-55mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A1LNKGWIPF39ZR
ReviewerName: A. Adams "New Mama"
Date: September 4, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 8
Rating: 4.0
Title: Nice camera, maybe save money and get a nice lens for your Xti?
Content:
Okay, so this camera is an upgrade for me from my 3 year old rebel.  There was absolutely nothing wrong with the rebel but my dad looooved it and wanted it, so offered to buy it from me.  on the spot.  so of course i sold it!  I read all the reviews of all the cameras and decided that there were JUST enough added or upgraded features on this camera to warrant it's pricetag.
Pros:
1.  Huge, Enormous, Gigantic lcd viewer.  Truly awesome resolution for checking your shots right away.
2.  Weight: feels pretty light to me.
3.  Black and white option.  nifty.  avoid post production conversion
4.  Easy to use, just pull it out of the box and start playing.  (my two and a half year old can hold it and take a picture on auto)
5.  This kinda goes along with number 1, but the manual setting numbers show on the lcd (that is huge) and they are big, so you can reference them quickly and accurately.  i actually prefer this over the tiny screen above the shutter button on the 50d.
Cons: (i had to think hard on this one)
1.  It's a bit pricey.  I am just being honest.  for someone who takes pics of their baby and dog primarily...I would perhaps recommend a less expensive Canon DSLR like the XTi or other with a more expensive lens.
2.  The kit lens.  Not my favorite.  I bought it because I thought with the Image Stabilization that it would be better but it is a bit slow in focusing, tends to get kinda iffy about where it is focusing sometimes.  (you can have the red blinking light all lined up and STILL not be in focus).  Also, it is not great for low light situations.  All of that said, it is an awesome lens for outside on a sunny day.
3.  This one is actually my own fault.  15 mega pixal photos?  ARE ENORMOUS!  They are like 6 meg apiece and that means you have to do some post production work shrinking them to send them to grandparents and friends.  and uploading to photo sharing sites like Shutterfly?  takes a while.  plan to plug in and walk away for some time if you have more than about 20 pics.
So this may sound negative but i love this camera in real life.  it's easy to use and almost always gives me great photos.  my bottom line is this though:  unless you NEED 15 mp, opt for something less expensive and get yourself a little 50mm lens to go with it.