ID: B0013B88FO-RS7L2QXVSPFHI-A3A25SCYI0P8CK
Category: MP3Players
Product: Sony-Walkman-Video-Player-Pink
ReviewerID: A3A25SCYI0P8CK
ReviewerName: T. Lawrence
Date: September 3, 2008
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Amazing Mp3 Player
Content:
I've always been a fan of Sony's mp3 players simply because of the incredible battery life they boast and always deliver.  I've owned 1 GB walkman mp3 player and a sports water resistant cd player, both to this day are still working.  But I was in the market for something new when I came across the reviews for this mp3 player.  Everyone that reviewed it said that Sony struck gold with the audio quality that this mp3 player delivers.  So I skipped the Creative Zen and went with this mp3 player.  It was a great decision yet again.
Pros:
+It really does sound that good and it comes with great headphones even if they look funny.
+Battery life is amazing.  I know mine does 36 hours of music because I tested it.
+Compact and lightweight. I go to the gym so I needed a small mp3 with armband.
+Files are drag and drop. Copy and paste from the hard drive to the player. Easy and supports every format I've tried.  I have not tried iTunes music.
+LCD screen is bright, looks great, and does not scratch easily
+Easy menu navigation.  It's not a click wheel but it's set up very well.
+Volume.  It gets very loud.  The last gen walkman wasn't very loud. It was fixed with this mp3 player.
Cons:
-Cannot make playlists on the fly
-Doesn't pause when the headphones disconnect (My iPod spoiled me with that feature)
-Video is not drag and drop. There is some conversion you have to use their program for.
-Included software isn't as pretty or useful as drag and drop.
The cons are me being picky.  I am very impressed with this generation of Sony mp3 players.  Because I have electronics addiction I may buy a Zen after awhile anyway just to see what it can do.  But this mp3 player is great for the gym or just sitting around listening to music.  And the battery life is great.  Even if it doesn't pause when you unplug the headphones, you could unplug it and leave it playing for 12 hours come back and plug it in again and it will still be playing.  My sixth generation iPod couldn't do that if I just charged it.  I think mp3 players should be hooked to headphones more than a charging cable.