ID: B001ET5U92-R3IYEDZ7ILGFEQ-A3M1RHIREM5YX7
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D90-12-3MP-Digital-Body
ReviewerID: A3M1RHIREM5YX7
ReviewerName: Seth Johnson "friend to Tasmanian Tigers"
Date: December 20, 2008
Helpful: 13 of 15
Rating: 5.0
Title: It's the iPhone of Nikon cameras
Content:
I'll admit up-front that I have only spent one day shooting with the D90 and have upgraded from a Nikon D70. The D70 was a great ~$1000 camera which I bought immediately upon its release. My photography improved dramatically with that camera and I had little motivation to invest in a new camera body.
That complacency lasted until I heard about the D90. I wanted to explore HD video recording using my collection of Nikon lenses. I also wanted to increase my ISO to 3200 for night photography. Also, my D70 was having difficulty recognizing memory cards, so it was time for a replacement.
The best way I can describe my upgrade experience is that using the D90 after three years with my D70 was like switching from a monochrome nokia phone to an iPhone. This camera is packed with useful features. The high-resolution screen on the back allows for impressive zooms that can verify in the field beyond doubt if you got the detail you wanted in your picture. It's got in-camera organization of your images however you want. You can store them to different folders on the memory card, sort them by date, and even have the camera record every image in RAW and JPEG.
Most everything is pretty much in place between the two cameras. Adapting to the D90 is fairly intuitive, but there are several display fields that I have to look up in the manual because I don't know what they're referring to. The interface is so intuitive, it also contributes to the iPhone analogy I made earlier. This is a well-thought-out device. You can see the years of product research that have been invested to making the user experience rich within the D90. Doesn't make sense why they chose Ashton Kutcher to be their spokesmodel.
If you're considering this camera, I'd assume you're already well enough versed in the world of photography that the following recommendations are of little value. I provide them for someone who might be considering a significant upgrade in their camera kit from a point-and-shoot.
Here are some other products that go with the D90 like milk & cookies:
Nikon SB-600 Speedlight Flash for Nikon Digital SLR Cameras (most people don't need the SB800- this one is excellent)
Nikon 50mm f/1.8D AF Nikkor Lens for Nikon Digital SLR Cameras
Nikon Zoom-Nikkor - Telephoto zoom lens - 70 mm - 210 mm - f/4.5-5.6 Ai-S - Nikon F