ID: B001E532ZA-R2TFGTYEYI3YEO-A284B5MD91KF9Q
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Bosch-TAS4511UC-Tassimo-Single-Serve-Coffee
ReviewerID: A284B5MD91KF9Q
ReviewerName: Hubert E. Danner
Date: February 21, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: simply the BEST
Content:
I have owned the top of the line model for about six months and found that I can't live with out it. The next line down is just as good minus a few features like a nice light and LED screen. Either way it's just great coffee, latte cappuccino and more it's fast and simple.
Unlike the very expsencive machine you don't have to clean it after every use. Yes, it doesn't not make a perfect espresso drink as a $2000.00 machine. But it saves you from spending 5 bucks a hit at the local shop.
	I considered a Kurig for about two year. This machine a good to but can't make a milk based product. Just coffee, tea, and water based hot chocolate.  The Tassimo uses pressure to make a better cup of coffee verse dripped water. The Kurig has more selections however the Tassimo has better quality. The local Bed and Bath has allot to choose from but for a bigger selection go to the Tassimo online store. If you buy 3packs you get free shipping so the price is the same as your local store. A quick tip I buy the Espresso and froth my own milk with a battery powered  whisk or some times refereed to as a silver bullet. For those days I'm in a hurry I use Tassimo packs that have the milk and the Espresso together.
I took it to friend's house for Thanksgiving and all I can say is that I could not get away from the machine and I got no tip in my jar 
I have to laugh at some of the people that gave this machine a lesser rating. They must be mental and physically challenged. One stating it makes to much noise and she's afraid it will wake here husband. All I have to say to that is it uses pressure and move your husband bed out of the kitchen. I have seen other bad reviews of the same type. One was about a GPS they gave bad reviewing too. It took them out of the way and they did not have enough time to get to Disney. They might of wanted to look up a road sign time to time  lol.  All I can say it try one if you don't like it then take it back to Bed and Bath they will take it back. HAVE YOURSELVE A GREAT CUP OF COFFFE AND EXPRESSO. PS I like the creama coffees too.