ID: B001XURPQI-R1MVNO5RXVC3VK-A2ZK1C061H37GI
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-T1i-Digital-Body-Only
ReviewerID: A2ZK1C061H37GI
ReviewerName: P. Shyu "Prosumer"
Date: June 14, 2009
Helpful: 12 of 14
Rating: 5.0
Title: A relatively low-cost Canon with really fantastic picture quality, along with HD video
Content:
I've been testing out the Canon Rebel T1i DSLR camera (aka Kiss X3, Canon 500D) for about 3 weeks now. It's my first DSLR, and perhaps you too are considering making the jump from the point-and-shoot.
Which camera to get? 
When buying a DSLR, the lenses matter much more than the camera body- and will probably cost you much more as well.  These lenses will lock you into a system -- either the Canon, Nikon, or Sony system likely. Consider what cameras your family and friends are using and who you could potentially be sharing lenses with. Lenses generally cost $[...] to $[...], so it's a big deal.  Photography is a budgeting game.
The next thing to consider is whether you want an entry-level or medium-level camera.  I'm new to DSLRs and wanted something inexpensive that I could learn to handle properly.  I also want to be able to carry the camera around in the rain or snow for example and not worry too much about protecting it. But image quality is important too, and so I wanted the "latest" model.
The body
At 15 megapixels, the image quality is as much as you'd expect from Canon. There is low noise and the colors are vibrant. They supposedly crammed the higher-end Canon 50D sensor into this one, which probably isn't true but true enough to be believable.
As for live-view mode, it's pretty messy to use since it requires pressing a lot of buttons.  Still, it comes in handy sometimes and I think their "quick-focus" mode is better than Nikon's slower digital focusing.  If you're really into live-view mode, consider the Sony Alpha series -- but know they have a smaller lens selection.
The camera does somewhat limit your manual options, reflecting its target entry-level audience.  For example, I can't seem to get the camera to center-focus with evaluative exposure metering. But there are workarounds, and all cameras have their peculiarities that you get to understand.
The 500D is one of the first entry-level DSLRs to feature HD video.  At first, I didn't think I'd use video much -- after all, I'd get a camcorder if I wanted that.  But the captured quality is HD and really looks nice, so I began to use it.  Video captures the mood of a place much better than some artsy photo with blurry bokehs. Your options are 1080p at 24fps, or 720p at 30fps. I use 720p/30fps, which is already high-quality enough for me. Especially when it comes to processing the videos, I don't want to wait forever -- I think online video sharing sites like Youtube only play video back at 720p anyways. The recent h264 encoding makes life much simpler with smaller file sizes.  On videos though, you will likely have to use manual focusing -- so your videos won't be perfect, but they can help add to your memories.
The 18-55mm lens.  
It's actually a pretty decent lens.  If you are a beginner, it's a good deal for a lens that you don't have to care too much about -- one you can use in the rain or snow for instance.  There's no real problem with the lens, although later I picked up a Tamron 18-270mm lens for about $[...] more.  
Conclusion
So far, I'm pretty happy with this camera. It's a relatively low-cost Canon with really fantastic picture quality, along with HD video. The fact that it's a Canon means I have access to many top-notch lenses. The 18-55mm kit-lens is also quite good and covers decent range. As an APS-C sized camera, the size is smaller and the price cheaper. And video recording is actually a lot of fun.
See sample photos/videos:
[...]