ID: B001NEK30E-R2FVD60OE6XJXX-A2NB11WRJMFSH3
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-A355-S6940-16-0-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2NB11WRJMFSH3
ReviewerName: amazon-user
Date: February 7, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 3.0
Title: Good Specs, Good Price, Feels Cheap
Content:
I bought this Toshiba laptop about 7 months ago.  It has been very reliable, Vista hasn't crashed once, and I've never had any real problems.  Internet signal is great, and it connects to the internet farther away from my router than my similar HP laptop.  It's also fast enough to keep me satisfied, and can run videos and games with ease (as long as they aren't too graphic intensive, it is a laptop after all).  The price has come down about $150 since I purchased this computer (probably because it has the dreaded Windows Vista) but even at close to $800, this laptop is a bargain.  The screen is wide and bright and crisp, probably my favorite part of this computer.  It has a built in webcam that is very clear, and Harmon/Kardon speakers that produce very very good sound.  And thankfully, instead of those glitchy volume touch sensitive buttons (like the ones found on my HP, that rarely work and/or get stuck turning the volume up or down randomly when they aren't even touched), this Toshiba has a simple little volume knob on the front, next to the headphone jack.  Very convenient.  Another positive, it stays cool.  Doesn't get as hot as many other laptops I've used for periods over 1 hour.
But, there are some things I really HATE about this computer.  Firstly, the entire computer is a giant magnet for fingerprints.  Every surface is shiny, and although it may look cool in the photos, it looks terrible when its covered with dust and fingerprints.  Its also incredibly hard to clean without making it streaky or scratching the finish.  Although I said the screen looks great, it doesn't make sense to have a 16-inch screen without a number pad.  It actually appears smaller than the 15.6-inch screen of my HP, in part because it is really wide and not very tall.  The entire laptop feels a little flimsy.  It creaks and bends when picked up from a corner with one hand.  Also, the little door on the CD drive became loose after about a month, therefore whenever the CD drive starts, the door vibrates, producing an incredibly loud and annoying buzz.  I've talked to a friend, who also has a Toshiba laptop, and her CD drive does the same thing.  To remedy the situation, I usually put my finger on the CD door when the computer is starting up, or when I hear the CD drive start.  The keyboard feels flimsy, especially when compared to the keyboard on my HP laptop.  Theres no real feel or feedback from the keys, and they feel loose, as if they are going to get stuck to your finger and pop right off.  But the absolute WORST thing about this computer is the mousepad.  It's scary bad.  Its more inaccurate than any other mousepad I've ever used (at any pointer speed).  The horizontal and vertical scroll bars arent marked on the actual mousepad (as they are on HP and Dell laptops) so you pretty much have to guess where they are when you want to scroll.  I often can't find them, and instead of searching for them I just scroll the old fashioned way.  At the top of the mousepad is a completely useless and annoying feature that will make your web browser go "Back" if you slide your finger from the right to the left over the top of the mousepad.  It will then go "Forward" if you do the opposite.  However, when I actually want to use this feature, it takes me about 5 tries.  In that time, it would have been easier to just click on the back button.  This feature seems to work perfectly when I don't want it to.  Sometimes, I'll just try to move the mouse to the left or the right, and it decides to move my browser back and forward.  Incredibly inconvenient.  And I still haven't figured out how to turn this off.  Occassionally, the mousepad will just turn off completely for a few seconds.  I've found that rubbing my finger from the very top of the mousepad to the botton will turn it back on for some reason, but this is a pain when playing games.
My verdict: Good specs and speed for the price, but the quality is questionable.