ID: B001SAS5NU-R1YNR1LV4W78JY-AI6BTZO72ALQK
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Factory-Reconditioned-Dyson-12446-02-DC21-Canister
ReviewerID: AI6BTZO72ALQK
ReviewerName: L. Baldwin "believe it!"
Date: March 4, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Wow.  The suction really is in incredible!
Content:
As with most if not all canister vacuums, it is a little cumbersome.  However, all the parts that detach do so very simply and efficiently.  The hose wraps and tucks neatly and the vacuum head piece also detaches and stores neatly on the unit.  There is a place for everything and a real plus is that the electrical cord retracts.  There's never any fumbling to remove the cyclone canister to empty it.  It's very simple and has always clicked back in place without even nudging or tweaking it.  It just clicks right in place.  You don't even have to put any muscle into it, and you don't have to turn the unit over or be placed in any awkward positions.
It has three hose head attachments which are housed on the unit and have stayed in place really well.  (Meaning they don't fall off as I move the unit around).  They are:  1.  angled pointer for tight spaces 2. small head with stiff bristles  3.  small head piece with lint collector strips.  These are fine but nothing real great.  I used the head with stiff bristles for sofa and upholstery cleaning, but the head is really too small for that.  The angled pointer is good though and I have used that for the tight spaces.  But I wish it had a longer handle to reach way back under a sofa for instance.  The pointer is only about 10" long so it doesn't have a great reach.
The unit seems durable and is pretty lightweight.  Mine came with a separate hard floor hose attachment (which does not have a housing on the unit, it is stored separately), however the regular carpet head piece is dual purpose and with a press of the button it can go from carpet to hard floor surfaces.  When in a hurry this is great, but the separate hard floor unit is more effective than the dual purpose head piece when it comes to hard surfaces.
This is my first Dyson, and as others state, it is simply astounding the amount of suction this thing produces.  So that is the biggest plus.  It totally gets your carpet clean!  It pulls so much stuff up, that I pretty much have to empty the canister every time I use it.  I do not consider this a negative b/c it's really easy and I know how much stuff it's getting up from my floors and carpet.