ID: B001D089XQ-RFQ31JGDGIWJN-A1FO1XXPDDEM0Q
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-160-Internet-Media-Tablet
ReviewerID: A1FO1XXPDDEM0Q
ReviewerName: Paul Arking
Date: January 12, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 1.0
Title: Looks great at first glance, but terrible software and even worse support!
Content:
At first glance this looks like a great gadget: sleek, sexy, advanced. But, dive a little deeper beneath the surface (which, unfortunately, doesn't usually happen until after you've bought it), and you'll find yourself quickly frustrated in many ways.
For starters, this unit does not play all codecs out of the box. Sure, it *supports* them, but those are "premium features", meaning you have to go to their web site and shell out all sorts of money on top of the $350 you just spent to get "unlock codes". What kind of shell game is that?
Another frustrating problem is the interface. It is absolutely *cluttered* with all sorts of unwanted features that you cannot turn on or off, most of which are--again--premium features. So, you essentially have an advertisement-cluttered interface.
Finally--and this is the most inexcusable of all--their customer support is *abysmal*. I cannot stress that enough. If you email them, it will take them the better part of a week to respond--if they *do* bother to respond at all (my success rate with getting responses from them is below 50%). If you decide to call them instead, be prepared to sit on the phone for at least a half hour between queue times, inept representatives, being put on hold or transferred... and, speaking of transferred, you may ask for a supervisor at your own risk. What do I mean? I mean that they get upset at you if you ask too many questions or even ask for a supervisor and then they actually hang up on you! 
How do I know so much about their terrible support process? Because my unit broke within the first year of using it (and I don't use it heavily). The hard drive just died one day and, believe it or not, over a month later now, it's still not fixed (I even have a pending BBB case open to either get my fixed unit expedited or to get my money back!).
So, in short: CAVEAT EMPTOR! BUYER BEWARE!