ID: B001FSKDWQ-R3CQXBB88D3CU2-A1IA66GGYWKL8Y
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Panasonic-DMC-G1-Digital-3-5-5-6-Red
ReviewerID: A1IA66GGYWKL8Y
ReviewerName: Christopher Choi
Date: July 4, 2009
Helpful: 15 of 16
Rating: 4.0
Title: Like a point'n'shoot(but better)!; great customer support from Amazon
Content:
I'm a budding photographer;I get all the jargon(rule of thirds is my new word of the day) and stuff but I really haven't shot too many photos yet,but I've done enough shots with my PowerShot 590IS to realize the limitations of a point and shoot.
I felt I was ready to make the step to a big boy camera.I wanted the picture quality/low noise of a DSLR while not being encumbered with something like even a Nikon D90, while having the ease of shooting of a point and shoot. oh, and interchangeable lenses.(That got rid of the PowerShot G10)
The Lumix G1 fit the bill. It's a true joy to shoot with; even at full auto(intelligent auto, as they call it) pictures are AMAZING!I handed the camera to some of my friends with no photo experience, and they took shots that I would be proud to frame.
Yes, once you leave the land of automatic, the menu options are quite complex, but a little bit of RTFM never hurt anyone :)  
and yes, the autofocus is very fast,you can poke around the web to see the reviews, but I can personally say that the autofocus does rival a SLR's autofoucus. 
The viewfinder is very nifty, you can review pictures on it due to it being electronic, perfect when its too sunny to see on the beautiful main LCD;it can do everything the regular LCD can. It is also very sharp and the colors are jaw-dropping,it does 800x600 at 60fps.However, there is tearing when you move the camera too quickly and occasional rainbow effects, due to the viewfinder being based on projection technology,LCoS to be precise(note: I have extreme sensitivity to the rainbow effect,and LCoS/DLP is very susceptible to it)
The main problems are price and the lens selection;the D5k and the XSi are very close in terms of price($630ish of 9/09), while offering video and the ability to use the huge selection of Nikor or Canon EF-S lenses,respectively. I particularly miss a nice fast macro. However, if this is going to be your secondary camera or you have simple needs(no wildlife or sports, for example), the current selection of lenses may fit your needs. I am personally switching to the Panasonic 20mm f1.7 pancake when it is available separately(With the 4/3's crop factor of 2, 35mm equivalency is 40mm). In addition, with the release of the GF1, Panasonic is releasing new lenses like the aforementioned pancake and a legit macro "made" by Leica(90mm equivalent). 
In summary:
Pros:
Easy to use/great auto mode
LCD is fully articulating, you can do easy self-shots :) 
Best live view out there
Fast autofocus(rivals the SLRs)
Good quality pics, gives the competing SLRs (and even the D90)a run for their money
comfortable grip 
small size
kit lens is good quality and very small(unbelievably so) 
OVER 9000 adapters for lenses out there(from Oly OM to Leica M), due to Four-Thirds being an "open" standard. 
Overlay on the EVF is genius, no need to look at the main LCD to see f-stops, shutter speeds, shots on card, battery life ,etc like on real SLRs 
Cons:
(These are all really little nitpicks, and the only con that has been a problem at all is the battery life)
not all 4/3 lenses autofocus 
4/3 lens adapter is big
panasonic is still a bit slow with getting the m4/3 lenses out
kit lens could be a bit faster but so can Canon and Nikon's
the Olympus E-420 is around the same size while being a real SLR and allowing you to autofocus with 4/3 lenses and mount them without adapter 
the Olympus E-P1(another m4/3 camera with the form factor of a rangefinder camera, but with no flash or viewfinder) autofocses with all 4/3 lenses,while being smaller. oh it also does great video.It's a bit more than the G1 though, $700+. and it is slower at autofocusing.
kinda pricey for a non SLR 
poor low light performance in comparison to the D5k/XSi(ISO 800+ performance is not all that great, and the viewfinder is grainy/jerky in low light, however it is still bright)
VERY POOR BATTERY LIFE in comparison to entry level dSLRs(300 shots is a good day) 
AEB is limited, 2/3 steps, 7 shots at the most, not too good for HDR.
no video.
My verdict: If you don't care about video and you don't have OVER 9000 Nikon or Canon lenses and/or you want something that you can carry around without being hindered, this is for you. 
If you want video or a longer lens, save your pennies for the GH1, it seems to be positioned at the D90's territory with a 14-140 tele lens and a $1400 price tag. The lens separately costs $800, the price difference between the GH1 and the G1. The GH1 autofocuses while shooting video btw. Also, DP Review says that the GH1's sensor is a bit better past ISO 800, in addition to the 1:1 sensor ratio being a nice new feature.
Little tidbit: The flash on my G1 died after a couple days, and Amazon sent out a replacement 1st Day Air after I told them I needed it in time for a quickly upcoming vacation, and I didn't even need to send my old one in before they shipped! Panasonic did not budge, they told me to ship my old camera, wait until it makes it to Texas(I live in CA) and then they would replace it...after 10 days...well into my vacation.
thanks Amazon! 
Edit 9/13/09: The GF1(Panasonic's answer to the EP-1,but with the legendary GH autofoucs speed and with a weak pop-up flash) is also a consideration but its very expensive ($900) and it doesn't have an EVF standard. I really like having an EVF for outside shootin. Adapter adds one but for this amount of scratch...