ID: B001FA21RE-R6TKW8I9HIEKE-AS44QEHT3KSPK
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Nescafe-KP210650-Single-Serve-Coffee-Machine
ReviewerID: AS44QEHT3KSPK
ReviewerName: slaphappy
Date: April 24, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great cappuccino and iced coffee, a nice alternative to Keurig
Content:
I own a Keurig so some of my comparisons are between this unit and the Keurig.  Overall, this is unit has a lot of flexibility and some nice extras that the Keurig doesn't. But, the vendor requires use of its proprietary descaling solution, and they are the only ones that make the coffee capsules for the unit. Ultimately, if other vendors begin to make capsuless for this machine, then I think it can be a fairly successful competitor to the K Cups used by Keurig, especially if the coffee tastes better than the variety supplied by Nescafe. Also, it would be ideal if Nescafe finally provides instructions and support for using vinegar to clean the unit, instead of explicitly instructing users NOT to use vinegar.
The unit itself is funky looking, and a bit big. It's not really larger than the Keurig, but from the side it looks like Rosie, the housekeeper on the Jetsons, and it kind of cracks me up. But, it's functional. 
Pros:
**Iced coffee! 
There is a setting to make iced coffee! That is a dream come true. My family is addicted to ice coffee and it's just a pain to make it yourself.
**Fancy glass and mug!
A lovely coffee mug/glass as well as coffee cup and saucer are included. This works out to be especially nice since the reason I got this was for my son going off to college. Otherwise, it's not necessary.
**Cappuccino that is frothy!
It was great to not have to take out my espresso/cappuccino maker and steam my own milk. This machine made a nice, hot, frothy cup of cap from a capsule! Nothing else I needed to do....
**Ability to make varying amounts!
With this unit, you control the amount you brew - the Keurig has predefined settings (1-3 depending on which unit is being used.) This gives you control over the strength of your coffee.
 
**Ability to do double shots!
You can double up coffee capsules to make a stronger cup, and the only way to make a stronger cup with Keurig is to use two separate k cups and have each produce a small cup.
Cons
**Requires purchase of a Krups descaling packet!
I smell scam....this is just silly. What's wrong with vinegar? Every other machine like this one has instructions telling you to use vinegar. This one has DO NOT USE VINEGAR right in the directions. Either the vendor is trying to rip off consumers, or the machine is possibly made with such cheap plastic that vinegar could ruin it??
**Only 8 types of coffee capsules
I know it sounds gross, but in the summer, I am a blueberry iced coffee junkie. There are only 8 flavors of capsules and as far as I can tell, no other vendors have made capsules yet. So, no blueberry, and really minimal choice.
**Loud!
The unit is loud. The Keurig is not quite as loud, this makes the same sound as the Keurig but it has a louder hum/vibration on my counter. 
 
**It's a manual effort!
It sounds stupid, but I like being able to press a button, walk away, and have my coffee done. This unit requires you to move the handle back and forth to start and stop the brewing. 
Overall, this is not a bad unit. I have tried several flavors and reviewed them all separately. The cappuccino was best, the cafe lungo was good and strong but I wasn't thrilled with any other flavors. This is probably the biggest negative since there are no other vendors, like Green Mountain or Tully's, that make capsules for variety. 
Overall, I gave the unit 4 stars because it functions well, it's very easy to clean (as another reviewer noted, it's almost not necessary as the coffee capsules don't leak coffee everywhere,) and it provides great cappuccino and iced coffee. Since it's new, it's understandable that there are not more options available for coffee capsules and I am hopeful this will change over time. I am annoyed that the manufacturer explicitly states to not clean the machine with vinegar; I'd like to know why because to me, it seems like a big scam.