ID: B0019Q4I02-RRD105R331W1R-A32O5FZH994CNY
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Kenmore-27515-Canister-Vacuum-Blue
ReviewerID: A32O5FZH994CNY
ReviewerName: G. Ware Cornell Jr. "anotherlawyer"
Date: January 3, 2010
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: Nature may abhor a vacuum, but this is a good one
Content:
If you were to read my other reviews (324 of them as of the time I penned this one) you will see that I have never, ever reviewed any household cleaning supplies or devices. There is a reason for this, and the fact that I am male, a lawyer and pushing sixty ought to give you some pretty strong clues. Now how I came to review this nice Kenmore is a long story and involves my mother-in-law. For a significant birthday milestone, I am not allowed to say which one, my mother-in-law took my wife on a long cruise and tour of Italy. This left me at home with two responsibilities-feed the cats and don't mess up the house. The former was comparatively easy; the second a bit more daunting. So I did what any red-blooded American husband would do-I secretly engaged a cleaning lady. My plan was upon her return she would see how nice and clean everything was and would trust me if she should ever again leave for an extended period during football season.
Like all plans of this kind, my plot was instantly uncovered for two basic reasons. The first was that the house was substantially cleaner than I am capable of making it. The second reason involved her being greeted by said cleaning lady when she walked in the door. My wife however is no fool and she told the cleaning lady to return regularly. In spite of the fact that our house has a central vac, the cleaning lady told my wife she preferred a Kenmore canister vacuum (I not making this up) and to keep her happy we bought her a really good one.
The story cannot end there however. You can't write a review about how easy it is to buy a vacuum cleaner. Imagine then my surprise when I was told to assemble it from the box and vacuum up the dead Christmas tree needles. Having done so I am now more than qualified to write a review. So here goes.
Assembly:
The vacuum comes in a box with even the bag inserted. All one has to do is take it out, plug in the hose and the power head (or other attachment), turn it on, and get to vacuuming.
Vacuuming:
Tugging around this canister is no more difficult than lugging a thirty foot central vac hose (okay so I have vacuumed before). The 360 degree swivel keeps the hose from kinking, so I was not constantly twisting the wand. The wand itself is made from aluminum and telescopes out about 3 feet. The power head can be used on bare floors or carpet and the switch conveniently goes from off to floor to carpet and is located on the handle grip. The floor setting will not work properly if the separate pile height setting on the power head is not set to XLO which is Sears-speak for extra low.  There is a second power head gizmo for vacuuming stairs and if I am ever stupid enough again to buy another house with stairs I will amend my review to tell you how it does. Additionally there are many non-powered attachments for dusting (what's that?) and crevices.
Storage:
There is a place for all the tools including the power head. The storage of the power head required a quick trip to the owners manual for instructions. That does not diminish the utility of on-board storage for all the gizmos. It is a good idea and well executed.
Suggestions for improvements:
Like most men, I cannot see dirt. Many times my wife will point out areas where I was supposed to have vacuumed as being ignored. So a result of this,  one obvious suggestion would be a GPS so I could tell if I have ever been over a particular patch of floor. A second suggestion would be a video monitor like in those new luxury cars that shows thats behind you. The sound of the vac while relatively quiet disguises any noise my wife makes when she is sneaking up to see if I am really working.