ID: B00126V8WU-R3DOC71TCH3JEF-A3OFYC34B4GP4R
Category: MP3Players
Product: SanDisk-Sansa-Clip-Player-Silver
ReviewerID: A3OFYC34B4GP4R
ReviewerName: Emi
Date: July 17, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: My review after 8 months of use
Content:
It's a great product first of all. I was looking for a small mp3 player I could manage to carry around with me. For this 4gb device, it could hold at least 300 songs. It's great just for using on-the-go. Features are mp3, voice recording, FM radio, etc., which make it a very useful, multifunctional device. I've only utilized the mp3 function, however. 
I chose this over the ipod shuffle because you don't need to download any software to use it (just drag and drop songs directly into the device), there is a view screen, multifunctional, there's a clip on the back, and the price was reasonable (more for the dollar). 
So after using this little guy for the past 8 months, I'm very happy with my purchase. It has a very long battery life (though charging takes at least 4-6hrs for a full charge). I listen to it for about 2hrs a day and a charge lasts about a week or longer. You must have a computer to charge this (via usb port). I haven't looked into ac adapters, so I can't say if one even exists. 
It hasn't broken down on me yet, though it has froze once when I hooked it up to my computer. When I resetted the device by holding down on the power button for a couple seconds, the memory was intact and uncorrupted (a plus!). The only downside so far is the clip on the back. The clip itself can slide off easily prompting me to put it in my purse or pocket when I use it. I have a 2gb version of this device and the clip is very sturdy and secure. I'm assuming my 4gb came with a faulty clip. 
Also, I don't prefer listening to my music very loud with earphones(trying to delay the extent of hearing loss later on...), but even the low volume setting for this is pretty loud. I had to buy earphones with volume control in order to use this. Sound quality is definitely not an issue. 
I hope this review helps!