ID: B001H55J6M-R1K3DQNZ9NSEJV-A1CUH94UR2RMRS
Category: Laptops
Product: Lenovo-IdeaPad-13-3-Inch-Processor-Premium
ReviewerID: A1CUH94UR2RMRS
ReviewerName: L. Burke
Date: August 26, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Law Student, portability and price are VERY important
Content:
I'm a first year law student, so a few things are very important to me in a laptop. They are, in the following order:
Portability
Price (interchangeable with protability)
durability
processing/bootup speed
Ease of use (features are intuitive)
I'm not really concerned with whether or not it's useful for games, graphics, etc. (not to say that it's not, just that I have no interest and therefore have no opinion on its performance in these ares) I think these priorities are probably pretty similar to the priorities of most students, and I have to say, that after a week of daily (constant) use, the ideapad u330 has been spectacular.  I paid $804 (including tax) for 3GB/320/4600 pentium split processor (which isn't as fast as the one here on amazon, and i got $15 for out of box).  Physically, the only close competitor of this computer is the macbook pro of the same size, and this is close to being half the price.  They both weigh under 5 lbs, 13" screens, are similar in size and both have a metal exterior (u330's is a magnesium aluminum alloy, apparently). Yes, the macbook is stylish, but the u330 isn't terrible looking- esp. for people in professional careers.  Also, mine has a matte finish throughout- cover and screen, that is very attractive.  The glossy screen is VERY pretty on all the new laptops (esp. on macbooks), but it is impractical for fluorescent lighting and outside work.  The u330 is also very quick on startup, is able to run several basic programs at once (all i use), and the function key shortcuts are AMAZING; you can turn off the screen, change brightness, turn off trackpad, mute volume, and more with the function keys- it's wonderful for class.  Also, did i mention the portability is impossible to beat at this price? I honestly can't imagine a user, especially a student, who would not be thrilled with this laptop.
2 Cons worth mentioning: The matte finish is wearing off the metal on the corners after a week and a half.  I'm assuming this will get worse.  It's barely noticeable, however and does no effect performance.  Also, it sometimes makes a really awful beep when you unplug the power- and there's no way to get rid of the lenovo sound on startup.