ID: B0013FJBX8-R14GH6D5ZJDBYD-A2EHFYSRLY45Z3
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MB470LL-15-4-Inch-Processor-SuperDrive
ReviewerID: A2EHFYSRLY45Z3
ReviewerName: Brandie Woodward "Spock4Pres818"
Date: November 11, 2008
Helpful: 23 of 24
Rating: 5.0
Title: Go With The Pro!
Content:
I just purchased the pro yesterday at my local Apple Store.  I have had it for less then 24hrs so far, and I love it.  I was going to get the high end Macbook, and then at the last minute decided on the low end Pro upgraded with 4GB of Memory.  I am so glad I did.  It is so fast, and powerful.  The display is what made me make the final choice.  It is still very portable.  It weighs the same as my black macbook, and is thin.  It would be very easy to just to throw in my backpack and be on my way.  Also the firewire.  It was going to be the easiest way to transfer all my data from my old black macbook to the pro.  It only took and hour and a half, and I have all my information.  I didn't have to do anything, just started it up and began to play.  I didn't have Leopard on my old one, and I love it so far.  It is easy and the graphics and set up are great.  I love the stacks options, and the lighted keyboard.  I also love how the controls for the dashboard, screen brightness, keyboard brightness, and dvd controls, are right on the keyboard.  I was in between which laptop to get also because I am a casual gamer.  However, the salesman did tell me that I could still play some of the games on the Macbook.  The display alone is what I am enjoying the most.  It is definitely worth the extra money to get the pro.  Highly Recommended!
            I didn't get it from Amazon, or order it.  I wanted to look at the computer before I purchased it.  From reading all the horror stories on the web about people receiving damaged, or broken laptops from both the Apple Store and other retail stores.  I would also recommend if you are going to get a mac, go to the Apple Store itself and get one if possible.  They are so helpful, and usually give you some kind of deal when purchasing one.  They will also set it up for you, but transferring all your information to your new computer is very easy to do by yourself.