ID: B0019KOFEC-R39WOCH41PDS7K-A1M4Q31ZJM2QG7
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Eureka-3684F-Lover-Mighty-Mite
ReviewerID: A1M4Q31ZJM2QG7
ReviewerName: cmyk
Date: May 2, 2009
Helpful: 14 of 14
Rating: 5.0
Title: Suck up pet hair, hay, pellets, and more - with ease!
Content:
I'd been content using a cheap Shark handheld vac to clean my big area rug and carpeted office, but then we got the house bunnies. And boy, who knew that two 8 lb bunnies could shed so much year round. The handheld just wasn't cutting it anymore, and the hair, hay, and pellet bits were everywhere. My allergies and my OCD boyfriend were going nuts.
I had my heart set on a Miele (very quiet, great HEPA filtration to help with my allergies) but there was no way I could afford it, so I settled on this Pet Lover Mighty Mite. It has a HEPA filter that attaches to the exhaust on the back, and you can use Arm & Hammer vac bags with baking soda to reduce odors (it's a lot less dusty to close & dispose of a bag than to tap clean a little dirt cup that comes with the bagless varieties). It has the same amount of suction as a Miele but it's in my spending range - and it works just fine. It's a huge step up from my handheld Shark, obviously. The powerful suction picks up wafts of bunny hair, hay, pellets, stray poops - it even picks up hair from the previous tenant's cat that my old Shark couldn't get.
I use the rolling non-motorized floor attachment on the hardwood floors, low carpeting, and the area rug in our sub-1000 sq ft apartment with great results - I find that I don't need a motorized or air-driven brush since it picks up everything perfectly fine without it. It used to bother me that there wasn't a button to secure the floor attachment onto the adjustable wand (you just shove it on and it stays ok) but I constantly need to reach in crevices. Instead of changing heads, it's easiest if I just step on the floor attachment, pull out the wand, use it directly to get into corners and under chairs, then shove it back into the floor attachment.
Honestly, I think the Pet Lover name only refers to the little gimmicky pet hair claw brush attachment it comes with, and I don't even use it. The first time I used it on the couch, it jammed on itself and stopped rotating altogether. Eureka sent me a replacement for free, but since it doesn't stow on the machine like the crevice tool and upholstery tool, I left the claw in the closet and forgot about it. I think that the HEPA filter can be bought and attached to the regular Mighty Mite too, so you don't *need* to get this model if you want to save some money and don't want the claw.
It's been 6 months since I bought this vac and I'm very pleased with it. There's no retractable cord, and it's kinda hard to stow in a corner because the big gangly wand and floor attachment don't secure to the canister in any way - but I can live with these issues and have no regrets about my purchase. It's pretty loud, but if my bunnies aren't scared of it when I'm pushing it around (and they're scared of the espresso machine, garbage truck, etc...) then it can't be that bad.