ID: B001D06BWC-R2XENKEQ3DZJHX-A16YYKEP6L3LGY
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-60-Internet-Media-Tablet
ReviewerID: A16YYKEP6L3LGY
ReviewerName: landale
Date: December 17, 2008
Helpful: 9 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: Near perfect PMP, steller battery life with new firmware
Content:
I had recently bought a Cowon O2 PMP and was for the most part happy with it as a basic PMP.  I was sold based on the 8+ hour battery life and the fact it could play almost anything without transcoding.  I was always a bit disappointed though by the low rent interface and low screen resolution.  I recently saw that new firmware had boosted the battery life of the Archos 5 from 4 to 7 hours when watching video so I decided to give it a try.  After a week of use I am so glad I did!
The positives over the Cowon O2 are vast.  The screen is not only a bit bigger but it is much sharper and video playback is much smoother.  The built in kickstand is so much better the Cowon's stylus/kickstand solution.  The interface is gorgeous.  Sure it doesn't challenge the IPod Touch but at least it's not ugly like the Cowon's.  I also like that I can sync my music library using WMP as it allows for all my playlists to transfer perfectly which the Cowon couldn't do.  The WiFi and web browser are nice bonuses although I don't think I will use them that much.  The best part is that in my battery run down tests with the backlight at medium playing xvid videos the battery lasted for right around 6.5 hours.  I am sure with the backlight on low it would have easily last well over the stated 7 hours.
The player isn't without flaws though.  While it's nice that you can charge via USB it takes a painfully slow 8 hours to fully charge.  I find having to buy separate plugins to play high resolution and AC3 audio encoded videos quite stingy given the players $350 price tag, although 90% of my videos play fine without them.  I also miss the SD card slot from the Cowon as it was handy for use with my digital camera.  These are all really little things though and made my decision to send the Cowon O2 back much easier.
So if you are in the market for a portable video player and want something with a large screen, great battery life, and great features I definitely recommend the Archos 5.