ID: B001FA1NG4-R1YRBN7NKQ942E-A1EXJBW7S0DVU3
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Yellow-Generation-Previous-Model
ReviewerID: A1EXJBW7S0DVU3
ReviewerName: R. McAnally
Date: August 22, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: I Love The Ipod Nano 4th Generation!
Content:
I have an Iphone 3g, a fantastic piece of technology, but I prefer to use a standard Ipod as my primary music player. I have been using my 5 year old 20gb 4th generation ipod for that purpose until the hard drive recently fizzled. The technology in ipods has changed a lot in the last five years so I decided to get a new 16gb 4th Gen Nano to replace my old 20gb clunker. The 16gb is plenty big enough since I only used 7gb of the 20gb I had before. 
The Nano is great. It's thin, light (barely feel it in my pocket), sharp color screen, and it looks really cool. It plays video (although I will probably never use that feature). It has a shake to shuffle feature that shuffles the entire music list on your Nano.  
I got the black and it looks great. The menu selections, click wheel and volume controls work the same as my old ipod with added features like maximum volume control. It plays many hours of great music and the battery life is decent so far. 
The Bad:
Unfortunately, the new Nano is not totally compatible with my old ipod accessories (nor is my Iphone), and that includes my car stereo and my portable speakers. As previous reviewers have said, it will play but not charge and worse yet it does seem to suck battery juice at a faster rate playing through the dock connector. This is a very big disappointment however five years in computer tech is a very long time and considering how much more advanced these ipods and iphones are it may not be so unreasonable that they don't play nice with ancient technology. 
Also I don't like that the headphone jack is on the bottom of the Nano right next to the dock connector. The reason is that if you wanted to plug in an extra backup battery (which I have) you can't plug in your headphones. 
I don't understand the shake to shuffle feature. It shuffles you right out of the playlist you are listening to and it only works while the screen is lit up and active. If you have to press the touch pad to activate the shake to shuffle you might as well click forward to the next song.   
Conclusion:
So why do I give the small, light, cool looking, great sounding, little Nano five stars even though my old accessories are not compatible? Well, the Nano is a beautiful piece of technology that makes my old ipod look bulky, heavy, fragile and expensive dinosaur in comparison. It seems logical that anything designed to work with that dinosaur is probably outdated too. In other words incompatibility is the price of moving forward.   
PS: Since writing this review I found out that you can buy an adapter that will allow the Nano to work with the car stereo and hopefully my portable speakers. I ordered it from Amazon.com and can't wait to see my old accessories live again. Type "IFWA" in the amazon search window to find this adapter. It is made by Scosche but you won't find it searching that name.