ID: B0015ASYJ8-R1GOBHLAEYM9XH-A26R317OUDGOAA
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Digital-Camera-14-42mm-3-5-5-6
ReviewerID: A26R317OUDGOAA
ReviewerName: Alejandro "Alejandro"
Date: June 21, 2008
Helpful: 11 of 13
Rating: 4.0
Title: Pretty Nice Camera
Content:
So I was deciding between this, the E510/520, Canon's line, and Sony's. The thing about Canon is it's more expensive, even while you get better quality photos. Also, you miss out on the bells and whistles this camera's got, with live view, dust reduction, better kit lens, etc. Sony would have been what I'd gone with, had size not been an issue. For some people, there won't be much of an issue with size, but since I preferred a small camera, the difference was massive; Sony's lines are great, but only because they make their cameras quite a bit large that Olympus's. Also, the E420 has a nice improvement in terms of image quality and noise over the old E410, (which I wouldn't have bought. Image quality was just too poor on that old model) and the E510, and to be honest, the difference between it and Sony becomes negligible in everyday outdoor use and party/occasional indoor use upon close-up inspection. For prints and smaller images, there is no difference in noise, and you can easily compensate for the occasional over/under exposure. Really, for me, I was looking for a camera that could take good pictures, be handy, and come with some nice extras. Olympus met all those brilliantly, as did Sony did minus the 'handy' part. If you're worried about quality, don't worry unless blown-up images are your main concern. Then you might even want to invest more than the E420's price range and get yourself a slightly more expensive SLR altogether. Oh, and I would have loved the E520 (which is not much bigger, all said and done), but it wasn't coming out on time. IS (Image Stabilization) is real handy for night and low-light indoor shots, and if you're in need of a camera for that, go ahead and get the E520, it just wasn't available when I bought the E420. Good buy so far, nice bang/buck!