ID: B001EQ4BY0-R1BB1BDZUDER55-A1G7OBL7LYZFIH
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-50D-Digital-28-135mm-Standard
ReviewerID: A1G7OBL7LYZFIH
ReviewerName: Fair and Balanced
Date: November 24, 2008
Helpful: 8 of 45
Rating: 2.0
Title: From the Box, Straight to the Canon Factory Service Center
Content:
I spent time carefully shopping and weighing the numerous DSLR products offered.  I settled upon the Canon EOS 50D 15.1MP Digital SLR Camera with EF 28-135mm f/3.5-5.6 IS USM Std Zoom Lens kit and made my purchase.  I hope this will become a very satisfying camera.  I think that the kit zoom lens offers an ideal focal length range for everyday, "walk-about" use.
This is my first DSLR, and I received it on 11/12/08.
The Canon EF 28-135mm f/3.5-5.6 IS USM Std Zoom Lens was defective.
The zoom ring spins freely as gravity takes the zoom barrel of the lens from 28mm out to 135mm anytime the camera is (even slightly) pointed downward.  I call Canon hoping that they will send me a replacement (new and perfect lens) lens and I can send them this lemon.
Canon doesn't "roll" like that, and they only offer to repair the brand new lens at a factory service facility.  Canon advises that I seek resolution with my dealer.
Amazon customer care was fantastic and shipped a replacement kit immediately; I received the replacement kit on 11/19/08.
The lens in the replacement kit Amazon sent is no better than the first lens.
After some Internet searching, I discover that this phenomenon is known as "zoom creep".  (so much for carefully shopping and weighing)  I would characterize the two lenses I received as being afflicted with zoom run.  Their zoom ring functions were both extremely sloppy and Lucy Goosy.  The ring itself was not problematic in its rotational travel, the lens zoom function was ridiculously loose, at the mercy of gravity.
While this issue does not have any effect on the optical quality of the lens or images it certainly does not feel like precision optics to me.  Canon Technical Support says that with the image stabilization, the auto-focus, and the particular design of the zoom mechanism in this model lens, there is some inherent looseness, but that what I am describing is not at all "normal".
I decided that I was not interested in playing the replacement and return game with Amazon, in search of the perfect lens that I had bought.
I sent the original Canon EOS 50D 15.1MP Digital SLR Camera w/EF 28-135mm f/3.5-5.6 IS USM Std Zoom Lens kit back to Amazon at a cost of $35.00 with insurance.
Throughout the sordid affair, I had been calling Canon Technical Support.  To their credit, they have been very courteous and accommodating.  Yeah, I would like them to send me the perfect lens that I have already bought, but, as I said, they can't do that.
Beaten like a rented mule, once I finally succumbed to the inevitable, Canon Technical Support did supply me with a prepaid UPS shipping label to send my brand new and second defective Canon EF 28-135mm f/3.5-5.6 IS USM lens to their Irvine, CA Service Center.
Since I did not budget for any additional lens(es) with my purchase, I am waiting for my new and defective lens to be repaired and returned.
Although my excitement has been tempered (yeah, ya think?), I look forward to the day when I can take pictures with my new camera.