ID: B001FA1NHS-RCSINFC9478JX-
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Silver-Generation-Previous-Model
ReviewerID: 
ReviewerName: 
Date: April 12, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great!!
Content:
I was very excited when I purchased this iPod, escp. when I got it cheap for $90 dollars from Warehouse Central, even if it was used. When my iPod came, I was very happy to see that the iPod was in great condition, except for some smudges and light scratches on the screen.
    However, the earphones that came with it were BAD!! The gray covering on the part that goes in your ear were peeled off, the little thing in the middle of the wire which can adjust the spacing between the two wires was CHEWED UP, and the worst part? Some of the white covering on the wire had broken, exposing a red and copper wire. I didn't even put them into my new iPod, because I just didn't want to "test them". Now that I look at it again, I see two breaks in the wire. I ended up using my earbuds from my second generation shuffle.
     So, what I'm saying is that if you plan to use the earbuds that come with your iPod, DON'T BUY YOUR IPOD FROM WAREHOUSE CENTRAL because they might turn out really badly!
     The iPod itself was amazing. Like a lot of other people said, the genius sucks because it doesn't suggest songs that are alike the song you are listening to. The accelometer that you use for Cover Flow isn't always responsive. I turn my iPod on its side and it doesn't do anything, or I get a glimpse of Cover Flow, and then it just returns to the album cover of the song you are listening to. 
    Some good things about the iPod nano is that the color display is AMAZING!!! If you are planning to watch movies on this (despite the small screen), you won't be disappointed with the color. Another "color" thing about the iPod nano is the outside. I am constantly picking up my iPod to examine the beautiful purple color, afraid that I might scratch it (as I have not purchased a cover yet). 
    Overall, this is NOT a waste of money, and I would deff. recommend it!! I hope you enjoy it if you do buy it. :)