ID: B002Q0W8LQ-RSI9W8EBZFL6R-AD49US86GSQ4V
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV6-1361SB-15-6-Inch-Black-Laptop
ReviewerID: AD49US86GSQ4V
ReviewerName: D.N.Wijewardane
Date: December 16, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good but some design flaws
Content:
Having carefully read the reviews here, I purchased this HP laptop - replacing my earlier ancient but still robust HP DV1000... 
1. This laptop is surprisingly light - even with the battery for a 15". The design is sleek though I would have preferred not to have bought the circular panel designs (no choice with this [higher] specs). 
2. The screen is nice but strangely the default fonts are definitely somewhat fuzzy especially below the top of the screen. I bought an ACER Aspire 2930 for my wife : the fonts are much nicer, sharper and clearer and ACER screen is brighter, even on a mere 12" screen! Good for aging eyes. 
3.The sound quality from the HP Altec Lansing is surprisingly disappointing : once again the ACER 2930's Dolby Home Theatre sound is superior being more spaced out (HP's so called Premium SRS is bunched up) and giving a nicer film experience. My old HP DV1000 has easily the most robust and pleasing sound (also Altec Lansing but better quality - I expected otherwise)!  HP's speaker loudness is ok: not exceptional but adequate. 
4.I am not too enamoured with the HP keyboard: the tactile response is ok but the rationale of having shiny black "slippery" surface of buttons is baffling. Other laptops tend to have mattish surfacing which lends to more grip. Both earlier HPs and my current ACER have much nicer surface feel and one does not have the feeling of "slipping off". The area where you rest your hand, while spacious, feels somewhat tacky and gets warm from a few hours of use - maybe handy in winter. In an Asian climate, this laptop definitely emits more heat, noticeably, than I would expect. 
5. I almost missed buttons for Bluetooth/Wifi (ON/OFF) on the keyboard - only to realise that you just press the plastic! The cursor movement buttons below the Enter button area tends to be abit too small. Other laptops have onboard buttons for DVD controls (on this, these are tacked onto Fn+F9-12), browser etc. but HP has gone for a minimalist design... Ok but abit more functionality is better especially when Wifi signals fail and one has to double check whether the adaptors are on or off etc.
6. The fingerprint reader works well. 
7. There is a good number of USB ports (4), HDMI etc. so this was a factor in my purchase. This laptop is very quiet though when the DVD drive is working it tends to vibrate abit more than expected of other machines.
8. There are various LED lights (7?) dotted about but these are rather boringly white (ON). A few like Wifi alternate between red and blue. A little colour for different signals would have been nicer.
Overall, this IS a nice laptop but I am puzzled with several aspects of HP's exterior design. 
The tech performance is well detailed in other reviews and I am going by these, with no reason to be cautious. 
I would add that originally my DV 1000 was about $1300, whereas for $950 this represent very good value, though perhaps not of the same quality, alas.