ID: B0027P9BYW-R23H0I17HVNCXR-A13GE6TO6ETRGB
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VAIO-VGN-FW465J-16-4-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A13GE6TO6ETRGB
ReviewerName: Adam A. Booth "Game Smart"
Date: August 27, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: My New Buddy
Content:
So I bought this computer so I would have a very nice laptop to carry to class with me while I complete my BSIT degree. I almost went crazy waiting for it to arrive via Super Saver Shipping but it was more than worth it. I am a heavy gamer and the graphics card performs wonderfully with Fallout 3 on High settings. While transferring files from my external hard drive onto this laptop(I'm writing this review on it), transferring 2GB of files only took 2-3 minutes, WOW. I've never dealt with a 7200 RPM hard drive before but now I'm addicted. Taking everything from my external to this computer was a BREEZE. 
As you may figure, I'm not too big on Windows Vista, but it was definitely nice to get away from XP until Windows 7 comes out, in which this laptop gets a free upgrade to! I haven't had any compatibility issues though so I'm thankful for that. The OS and some of the software was a pain to update, and who wants the included Norton Anti-virus anyway? I've been more than happy with this computer over the past few days, but if it gives me an issue any time soon I'll be sure to update it, unless of course it's my own fault.
This thing is gigantic like the other reviewer said but with all it has in it, I'm sure no one is buying it to be a space-saver. I've had it hooked up to an outlet most of the time I've been using it so I couldn't give any details about the battery life, but what do you expect with such high-performance parts?
I would really suggest this laptop to anyone needing a computer with the specifications of a good gaming computer, and the blu-ray inclusion is perfect. Don't have to worry about it being outdated any time soon. Just beware that the size isn't something you would want to carry around a big college campus. Make sure you top off your purchase with the Microsoft bluetooth mouse, it's amazing not having cables or USB receivers sticking out of the computer.