ID: B002CGSYKS-R3W51MX6MUHD3W-A1LYU7WJ6IXYFF
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Interchangeable-Lens-14-42mm-Silver
ReviewerID: A1LYU7WJ6IXYFF
ReviewerName: J. Montgomery
Date: February 11, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: I love it
Content:
For this camera, either you "get it" or you don't. For me, I love it.  For several years my camera of choice was Hasselblad.  I do fine arts portraiture, often in monochrome.  With my Hasselblad, I loved the quality of the image, the square format, the projected image on a screen for composition, the quality of the camera itself and the versatility of the system.  Now that I have gone digital, the Olympus Pen is my main shooter - for less than the cost of a Hasselblad lens.  Image quality is top rate.  In fact, it is often too sharp and I soften (selectively) in photoshop.  I set it to shoot in square format (one of several options) and i enjoy the projected image for careful composition and understanding of the subtlety of the light falling on my subject.  This camera works great for me because my subjects are sitting still.  If you are trying to get a grab shot of those geese flying overhead, forget it.  This is not a camera for sports or nature photographers.  But for portraiture and landscape it is great.  The camera body quality is top rate.  I shot with Canon prosumer slr's for several years and never warmed up to the plastic, light weight feel.  By contrast, while Olympus Pen is not heavy, it is "dense".  Solid.  And with the adapter, I am able to use my old lenses from my 20 year old Olympus OM4 (another great camera).  I love that versatility.  Negative comments?  I do very little video, but for interviews I would like to have had an external jack for a microphone (added on the newer model).  The menu choices are excessive and confusing, and the documentation -- of course -- is poor.  Its all there, but if you are trying to go for a simple experience you have to figure it out.  Other than that, the camera is a tremendous success.  Just be sure you know what you are about with your photography so you will know whether this is a good fit for you.