ID: B002P3KMNU-R18KNCS8JMWBL7-A38KW5X6XRNVT3
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30A-A2-Light-13-3-Inch-Silver-Laptop
ReviewerID: A38KW5X6XRNVT3
ReviewerName: Meadowsdad "Andy"
Date: December 26, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Just  about Perfect
Content:
We love this machine. I reseached like crazy before buying this for my wife. I ordered the black unit but the battery was the 4400 mah, not the 5600, so i returned it, paid the extra money, and was promised the same weight but the bigger battery. Well, of course the battery is heavier, but at least i got the bigger battery, and also an extra year of maintenance.
So far, this is a great laptop. I have set the touch pad so two fingers allow you to scroll up and down in IE, and three finger touches acts as a back key in IE. Everything is terrific about this system and i love the ability to expand the screen for IE.
The silver unit is close to 4 lbs while the black unit is more like 3.7. I felt the extra battery life was worth it. Amazon doesn't quite understand this, in part because ASUS gives them incomplete information.
Pros: Screen, keyboard, fit and finish, battery, speakers (amazing sound), touch pad, Windows 7, quiet, runs cool, weight, runs quickly (i don't play high end video games but didn't buy for that)
Cons: Except for the weight being a few ounces higher than advertised for the bigger battery, non so far but just had this a few days so will update later on, be nice if Bluetooth included but don't really have a need yet(would be nice i guess to transfer files to cell phone, and use a bluetooth headset for music - but easy to buy the tiny bluetooth transmitter)
Summary: great machine,  hope Asus service is good and that the 1 year accident protection is for real, best of all my wife likes this and it was a present for her.
Update: 3/28/2001 - We still love this machine. Highly recommend it. I deleted the Trend Micro and installed the free MS Essentials and so far so good. We really only use for web and remote desktop, but we now have movies and pictures. I am still awed by this machine, especially how quiet, fast, and cool it runs, and of course the battery is simply amazing. I have used this a few times for business, with a Sprint MiFi, and i have gone an entire day without needed to charge. Simply amazing. We put it into 'Sleep Mode' and it is so quick to turn on. One small issue is that from Sleep the wireless sometimes needs to be fiddled with, but this takes a few seconds. My wife is an Apple lover and really wanted a MAC but she likes this machine a lot.