ID: B002M3SOC4-R1TZVK0JHLG4JU-A1M0ZZ2ZJ2UVA8
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-touch-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A1M0ZZ2ZJ2UVA8
ReviewerName: Ted R
Date: April 3, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: The (almost) cure for Verizon iPhone envy!
Content:
Like many others, I'm a Verizon wireless customer that doesn't want to switch to AT&T just to get the iPhone.  Well, I got this a couple of weeks ago and now I see why iPhone users are so crazy about their phones.  This thing is a blast.  It's basically got everything an iPhone has, except the phone and camera -- but you can download apps that should let you make calls and text, at least when you're in a wi-fi network.  There's no need to go into much detail; other people have done that.  I will say the touch screen is excellent, very responsive, but definitely get a screen protector.  A case wouldn't hurt, either.
The iPod touch has wi-fi capability, so if you have a wi-fi network set up at home, you can use it to check your email, surf the web, get the weather forecasts, download songs from iTunes, get directions through Google maps, etc.  Pretty much all of the apps available in the iTune store for the iPhone are available for iPod touch as well.  You can download and manage songs and apps directly through the iPod touch, or by using a computer with iTunes installed.  Syncing is easy (and you can also sync contacts, etc, depending on what programs you have).
Most everything is very intuitive and easy to learn, though if you've never used the Safari browser it will take a few minutes to realize how to switch pages (the equivalent of tabs in Firefox or internet explorer) [hint: the little icon in the far right corner with a number tells you how many pages you've got open].  It saves the pages, so even when you're not on a wi-fi network you can still see what you were last viewing (all pages that were open).  You can view YouTube videos, and then email them to friends.  And you can set the iPod to automatically play videos in landscape mode (as if you were tilting the phone sideways).  One note of caution:  if you get a case, then you may want to watch videos and listen to music with headphones, because the speaker goes out the back of the phone and a case that covers the  back will muffle the sound.
If you have re-ripped your CD collection at 256 kbps, or all your downloaded songs are at that higher bit rate, or you like to store and watch lots of tv shows, then definitely get the 64GB, as the 32GB will fill up faster than you think.
I really have no complaints about the iPod touch, except that it's not an iPhone...  But until Verizon gets the iPhone, this will do.