ID: B002OEBTC8-R2SHL953XXI58D-A3UQYXGP7BHA69
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-K-x-2-7-inch-18-55mm-Black
ReviewerID: A3UQYXGP7BHA69
ReviewerName: W. Struth
Date: December 5, 2009
Helpful: 25 of 25
Rating: 5.0
Title: Wonderful little camera
Content:
I purchased the K-X with the two lens kit with the 18-55 lens and the 55-300 lens.
This is a wonderful little camera; the autofocus is fast and accurate, the menus are clear and easy to use, the picture modes let you play with your creativity or you can use it for just point and shoot, and it has manual control when you are ready to use it. I went with the long lens because I take a lot of detail shots and this lens does the trick for me. I haven't yet found a situation where I needed to zoom in closer, and when I do I can always buy a longer lens.  Back to size it's a great one handed camera to use, I find the camera comfortable to handle and it feels well made.
I've taken about an hour of video so far; it can shoot up to 25 minutes of video at a time.  It's not a video camera but when you want to take a video spontaneously it works great.  For me the video is just icing on the cake.  The photos are what I bought the camera for.  I use mostly the aperture priority (to manipulate the depth of field or get low light shots) and the auto picture settings.  And they come out consistently crisp and accurate.  Sometimes you will have to manipulate the white balance settings especially when you use the low light capabilities of this camera without a flash, as with any DSLR. The camera has lots of digital filters to process your pictures with, and they are fun to use.  What I love most is being able to use the high ISO settings and not need a flash indoors and still get great quality shots.
I use rechargeable batteries in the camera and have now downloaded the new firmware so the camera recognizes them faster.  This is a must do because before I had to turn the camera on and off and turn the live view on and off for it to recognize new batteries.  I played with a few sets of batteries to make sure they would work.  I'm saving the supplied lithium batteries to be a back up set when the rechargeable batteries get depleted.
The in camera shake reduction works with all my lenses including my old manual lenses from 30 years ago.  The neat thing about using manual focus lenses (and wearing glasses like I do) with this camera is that you can set the camera to beep when you have focused the lens correctly, and there is also a visual indicator when you look thru the viewfinder. And every Pentax mount lens you buy will work with this camera.