ID: B002P3KMVC-R2HS2SO0J9Q1FT-A3LPGCFUI7M04C
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30A-X5-Light-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A3LPGCFUI7M04C
ReviewerName: Jenny
Date: March 3, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great laptop--coming from a college student
Content:
So, I was in quite the situation when I ruined my old, slow, 10 minute battery laptop by choking and spitting my drink all over its keyboard. I had to act fast and get myself a brand new laptop since I need one for basically everything I do in life. So the first thing I did was check out amazon to see what kind of laptops they had and their specs and prices. This laptop's description immediately caught my eye. Thin and light? 12 hour battery?! That would be amazing after the fat and heavy, 10 minute battery laptop I used to have. The price looked really good as well. But being the frugal shopper that I am, I decided not to act too quickly and go to my local Best Buy, Costco, and Fry's before I make any decision. Everything they had in the stores did not even compare to this laptop in my eyes. Yes, some computers had the new i3, i4, and i5 processors, and other spiffy specs, but that really did not mean too much to me. As a college student all I was looking for was something that was: 1) very portable, 2) long battery life-- have you any idea how irritating it is to find a darn outlet inside a large lecture hall? 3) ~13 inches--anything bigger is too bulky to carry around 4) affordable 5) any operating system other than Vista. This computer best fit my criteria, and after reading all the positive reviews about it, I decided to place the order. 
I just received my laptop yesterday, and I have to say. It's beautiful. The first thing I noticed when I took the computer out of its box was that it was very sleek looking, slim, and super light. Great! I open the laptop and I see a BUNCH of stickers and protective coverings. No problem, everything came off clean. The only thing I noticed was that the touch pad area had residual stickiness that made it very difficult to slide my finger across the pad. But the stickiness seemed to just vanish after using it a little, and it works great. I like how it isn't the traditional touch pad, but has little dots that sense your finger instead. Setup was pretty simple. I let it do its thing for about 10-15 minutes, then it asked me to make a username and password, and set up my internet connection and it was good to go. The keyboard is very nice to type on too. One of my friends pointed out that the design looked similar to that of a macbook. It comes pre-installed with a couple Asus programs that I probably would never use as well as some anti-virus program that I had never head of. But that was pretty easy to deal with. Uninstalling programs doesn't take a genius. So far everything has been running very smoothly, no issues to report yet. 
My only beef with this laptop is that it does not have a DVD drive, and I depended on my old laptop to burn DVDs and CDs as well as hook it up to my TV to watch movies. They don't really advertise this fact on the product description, so I was pretty sad about that. So I go back on Amazon and notice that a lot of the people who purchased this laptop also bought Asus's external DVD drive/recorder, so of course I had to take a look. It was just what I was missing, so I go ahead and buy that as well. Problem solved! I guess the lack of a DVD drive just a sacrifice we have to make in exchange for how light this laptop is.
I actually took this laptop with me to work yesterday and my manager really liked it. He then called out a couple more of his staff to take a look. It was amusing to watch them all crowd around my computer and admire it. But anyway, all in all, if you are considering buying this laptop, I would say go for it. Especially if you have similar criteria to mine. Its a great laptop at a great price.