ID: B002V8P0GS-R3QH1KXHDLFQ72-A3UZNLLZ3HFL34
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Aspire-AS5534-1096-Laptop-Notebook
ReviewerID: A3UZNLLZ3HFL34
ReviewerName: battman
Date: January 30, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: great computer, minor issues
Content:
I got this computer from my local micro center for under $400.  
Pros: Price is great for what you get. dual core AMD, 4 gigs ram, great display, windows 7
Cons: Case, color (explained below)
Lets start with my minor cons and the only reason this computer did not get 5 stars.  When i looked at the computer online it was described as black in color, even the box said black on it.  The top of the computer (back of screen) is like a gun metal silver.  It is very cool, but not black.  The keyboard it self is black but everything around the keyboard is silver and not the cool gun metal color like the top of the computer but just silver.  Again not a big deal and it does not look bad but the computer is 3 different colors.  I recently bought my wife a $279 emachine laptop (emachine is owned by acer) and i was hoping the case would be like hers.  It is all black very sleek and i think looks better then this machine.  This computer also has a  number keypad which i love but there is no num lock light so you dont know if it is on or not.  My wifes cheaper emachine has the num lock light.  The headphone jack is very tight, by that i mean i had to wrap the cord around my finger and almost rip out my headphones. the speaker jack does not have this issue.  Last gripe - the speakers blow. but it is a laptop so who cares.
Ok, here is the good stuff.
The screen is great.  Big, crisp and beautiful.  The keyboard is easy to type on and as mentioned above there is a number keypad which i love.  The track pad is very responsive and has multi touch ability straight from the box.  when browsing the internet you can pinch zoom using the track pad (i rarely use pinch zoom because the screen is big and clear).  You can also use two fingers to scroll but i find myself using the dedicated scroll area on the right of the track pad. The dual core is only a 1.2 but it is great.  I have had dvds burning with multiple programs and web pages running with no issues.  Higher resolution Hulu videos play great fullscreen even in the farthest room from our wireless router.  The 4 gigs is also a plus.  This machine can do all the web browsing and email checking of the day to day and much more.  This is a great laptop to add to your current windows 7 network or as your primary machine and for the price i say go for it.  I have already recommended to friends.