ID: B002C7458M-R30P4Q0NA2AJHS-A5Q1FK0FWU7DH
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB985LL-15-4-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A5Q1FK0FWU7DH
ReviewerName: reviewer
Date: August 3, 2009
Helpful: 20 of 20
Rating: 5.0
Title: I didn't know apple could get better but they did
Content:
I had an older version macbook pro but i dropped it with some force and it broke so i had to purchase a new computer.  After having a mac for 1 1/2 years, it wasn't a question of what brand to buy but which mac to buy.  I purchased the mac book pro 2.66 ghz with 4 gb ram--which is what i had in my last mac book pro.  What i didn't realize is that this ram is the DDR3  instead of DDR2 which means it is suppose to be better and faster.  i'm not a computer geek so i don't understand it all but basically having the 4gb in the old machine was still not as good as the 4 gb in this machine.  Also, this machine has a much, much better track pad that does all kinds of tricks i'm just learning about.  2 finger swipes do one thing, 3 finger swipes do another, 4 finger swipes do yet another.  and then you can also configure it to do the windows type double click think.  The whole pad can be clicked on so you don't have to find a particular spot--anywhere will do.  It does take some getting use to but it is so beneficial it is worth the learning curve.
I like the keyboard on this unibody macbook pro as compared to the old one but really don't know why--perhaps it is a perosnal preference.  it is backlighted but so was my old one.
tech support at apple is superb, another reason i will never consider anything but apple.  and if you have an apple store near you, you can get one to one personal training for a little less than $2 per week.  in addition, they offer free classes to adults and children.  you learn so much that you are finally able to take advantage of the features your computer can do without being a computer whiz.
the new version of the operating system, called snow leopard, will be out sometime in sept.  if you buy a system now with the old version, you can upgrade with apple for $9.95.
the graphics card is very good in this machine, however, i am not much of a gamer so i don't really reap the benefits of that.  but it is a dedicated card so it has great potential for those that would utilize it.  
another awesome thing about this computer is that the bettery last 7 hours or so.  at times, mine has lasted longer.  it depends, i guess on what you are doing.  and, even with the better battery, i think this computer weighs less.
if you are debating on whether or not to switch to apple, all i can say is that i am extremely grateful i did and so is everyone else i know that made the switch.  one of the things i like, in addition to the ease of use of programs and the seemless integration is that there are no virus programs to run that slow the computer down tremendously.  in addition, my old mac book pro ran as fast on the last day as the first and i am anticipating the same for this.  unlike my windows laptops that got progressively slower as time went on.  another great thing about apple is the seemless backup of files that it will do automatically for you. you don't have to figure anything out.  jut let it do its job and if you ever lose all of your data, you will have a back up to restore your computer.  That in itself can be worth tons of money. i know you can do this on windows machines, but it takes knowledge and effort--something i never seemed to posses when it came to computers.
one thing that i don't like is that the plug is hooked to the computer via a magnet.  it is suppose to be safer so that it will unplug easily if someone snags it. that way it doesn't drag the computer to the floor.  for me, i find it a little annoying because it can become unplugged easily.  minor detail but it is a little irritating.  if i could change one thing it would be that you have an option of which plug you wanted.
another thing that is different about the unibody macbook pros is that you can get a 13 inch with a full keyboard if you want.  when i bought my last one, the 13 inch had a weird keyboard and as a typist, i couldn't even consider that size.  i still chose the 15 inch because that is what i wanted, but now i can also purchase a 13 inch for my children rather than buying them the 15 inch.  
one thing that the mac store employees recommended to me rather than getting a desktop was to get the 13 inch laptop for my kids and use my existing desktop monitor, hook up the lap top, add a keyboard and mouse if desired, and use that as a desktop.  but you could always have the portability of a laptop if you ever needed it.  i haven't done that yet, but that is going to be my next apple purchase.
It took me over a year to decide to switch to mac.  It was a very tough decision for me.  change is hard.  i didn't know if i could do everything i wanted on the mac.  i have never regretted it once.  and if you are one of those rare users that has an application that can only be used in windows, you can use the program preloaded on the macbook pro or buy another program so that you can run your application--its like 2 computers in one.  one caution, however, whatever portion of the computer you dedicate to windows is subject to viruses so you will have to run an antivirus on that portion.  for me, i have found no need to use any windows application.  and i even found that i work is much better than ms office in my opinion.  but if you are partial to ms office, you can purchase a mac version.
Good luck with your decision and purchase.  if you buy any of these macbook pros, you will be happy.