ID: B002IKLJUK-R2LHJCX41L61RR-A2OE193AFPDU03
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Panasonic-DMC-GF1-Four-Thirds-Interchangeable-Digital
ReviewerID: A2OE193AFPDU03
ReviewerName: C's Mom
Date: October 7, 2009
Helpful: 15 of 17
Rating: 5.0
Title: Love This Camera!
Content:
Camera arrived last week and as I was playing around with it, I was on the fence about whether it was worth the money (2x a superzoom, more than some dslrs), and picture quality was ok but not stunning.  Indoor shots needed tweaking, and not so fast as I was expecting. Without the viewfinder, which hasn't been released yet, I was leaning toward returning it for a dslr.
 
On to this week and the real life testing - fabulous performance. I used the scene mode, the intelligent auto and the custom program where you can choose the settings like a fully manual camera at each event so I could get more of a feel for the camera.  School field trip - great pictures. Volleyball tournament - great pictures. Tried out the video at the playground, great picture quality, great sound quality and you can zoom without any external sound. The autofocus kept the picture in focus when zooming in video perfectly. The autofocus tracking and face recognition worked wonders when trying to get candids of little girls running around on a school field trip. The auto bracketing feature worked great when dealing with a gusty, cloudy day with changing light conditions. The one stop switch to black and white from color allowed for some interesting shots with an easy on/off adjustment.  The high speed burst mode caught all the shots I could want or need.  The size was great, easy to carry in hand, not too heavy on my neck when I had to use my hands for other things.  
Is it perfect? No, the manual focus is really hard to handle, especially indoors (very grainy, hard to get a clear picture) but this may be different when the viewfinder arrives. After the burst mode, there is a recovery which could cause a problem in a fast moving situation but I did not find it a problem with my situation. I don't find the intelligent auto very good at indoor shots unless you are using the flash, but that may be a learning curve issue.
Overall, it is a very expensive camera, but it appears to work as well as many of the dslrs on the market (with the exception of the shooting speed). It works well at the easy point and shoot mode and also works well with fully manual settings. It fits really well in a purse with the 14-45 lense and I can't wait for the pancake to arrive.
*************Update 10/13/09********
Camera is still working great and is more rugged than I had hoped. It still works after a approx. 3 foot fall from shelf to carpeted floor.