ID: B002PHM0G8-R3J90TCV2IGGXJ-A2SBKSXXYEFEY
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VGN-FW510F-16-4-Inch-Windows-Premium
ReviewerID: A2SBKSXXYEFEY
ReviewerName: Digital Watch Lover
Date: November 23, 2009
Helpful: 14 of 40
Rating: 3.0
Title: In our opinion, SONY no longer a reliable vendor
Content:
My wife & I bought this laptop from Amazon on November 4 to replace a 10 year old Thinkpad & supplement another 2 year old SONY laptop we own. We are very pleased with the new laptop. It is attractive, easily portable despite its screen size, & appears to have been manufactured with high quality parts & standards, We use it primarily for internet search & email, & are pleased with its speed & ease of use. We have not found Windows 7 to be the great leap forward that most seem to believe, but that is probably because we don't use many of its features........We have rated the new laptop only 3 stars because we believe that many who buy a SONY [at a premium price] expect more in the way of after-the-sale service than they would from most other brands. Unfortunately, that has not been our experience. Recently, our 2 year old SONY laptop suddenly developed wide white lines on its screen which made it unuseable. Although the warranty had expired, we thought it was reasonable to ask SONY if it would help with repairs, particularly after learning that other owners had experienced similar problems. After a series of exasperating & unproductive emails with SONY service, I finally wrote to SONY's CEO. The employee who responded agreed to pay a portion of our $365 repair cost for a replacement screen installed by a local computer shop. That was more than a month ago. We have never received the payment, and our repeated followup inquiries by email, fax & phone have gone unanswered.......We decided to buy the new SONY laptop only after SONY agreed to share our repair costs on the old laptop. Needless to say, had we known that SONY would not follow through on its word, we would not have done so.