ID: B002L6HDR4-R34VKNYZ9NS7EO-A2L0GT1DB2RRS4
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A2L0GT1DB2RRS4
ReviewerName: Arcturus70 "Arcturus70"
Date: December 28, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Going Green -- The iPod Way
Content:
Well, I confess to being lured to this purchase through three convincing instigations: 1) the Apple commercial featuring all the cool, vibrant colors; 2) the Apple web's tech / specs page, which boasted about the radio / video features ; and 3) a family member's gleeful Christmas-time purchase of an "orange" one. I mulled over it for days and stared at my still working, still wonderful original iPod Nano, White, 2GB, which had seemed so ultra cool years ago. (Am I getting old? LOL)  That white little Nano has followed me on many travels and through two computer upgrades as well as a swelling music library. It has served me well. Yet, the new green iPod Nano was a force that I could NOT ignore: it had radio AND video. So, I decided that I must go green and buy this newest model. I am extremely pleased with my purchase. What a great out-of-box experience! The documentation included was very helpful, easy to understand with appropriate illustrations to assist the new owner. The device was quite easy to start and configure with my existing iTunes setup on my MacBook. Compared to my older Nano, this new green one seems lighter and sleeker, almost space age. The screen is much larger, and the album cover pictures show quite brilliantly in vibrant color. What I like in this new iPod is the enhanced ability to choose how your iPod functions particularly with Font sizes. This is a blessing for eyeglass wearers such as myself. A pleasant surprise for me was that my music went easily into this new machine with no techno weirdness or hiccups, and my older headphones still worked, even with the radio feature! (The new model iPod comes with a fancy set of those earbuds, which no doubt pleases some folks. These shapes have never been comfortable for me, so I have always used more traditional headphones. So, I guess I have "dinosaur ears" that haven't caught up with discreet listening technology! LOL I was afraid at first that the radio would only work with the earbuds, but that proved NOT to be the case. My older Phillips head set experienced no problems with the device or the radio play. ) Another wonderful surprise was the clarity and stability of the radio feature in this small device. I could go on and on, but nearly 240 people have already commented on this product, so I essentially would be repeating what many others have said much more eloquently. I recommend this product for general music fans, audio book fans, travelers, and students. (Don't bother with any version of the iPod shuffle!) If you have a heavier media appetite, you might prefer the 16GB versions, or you may well wish to go all the way with the iPod touch. Visit Apple's web page and read the specs on this product before you buy! :) On that page, you can also compare iPod models, which is nice if you are not sure of the product that would suit you best. Of course, with all the new iPod Nano colors, you don't have to go green as I did....you can go orange, pink, blue, purple...etc.
UPDATE: January 2, 2010. My new iPod came with three games loaded under the Extra feature: Klondike (card game), Maze (a Maze / pseudo-pinball type amusement), and Vortex (Looks to me like some kind of space-age Pong! LOL) True, hardcore gamers won't be amused by these little offerings; however, I thought them to be quite clever, simple bits of fun to explore. I like them as distractions and stress-relievers.