ID: B002NKLRF2-R1ZL09696XLRMB-AIK2775RI775S
Category: MP3Players
Product: Creative-Labs-Player-Touchscreen-Speaker
ReviewerID: AIK2775RI775S
ReviewerName: A. Ter-grigoryan
Date: November 1, 2009
Helpful: 9 of 10
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great mp3 player, with minor issues
Content:
At a mere $130 for the 8GB model, this latest offering from Creative Labs stood out as a major bargain.
The included USB cable is so comically short as to be impractical to use except with a laptop. You probably had at least one spare USB cable anyway, but be forewarned that this pint-sized embarrassment is an example of blatant cheapassery on Creative's part. The Creative Labs ZEN X-FI2 Screen Protector is essential if you don't want a pitifully scratched up touch screen, so definitely get it with the player.
I've seen a lot of negative opinions about the touch screen, but I'm more sympathetic to this aspect of the product (I've never owned a touch screen product before this, mind you). After a good calibration, I found the sensitivity and responsiveness of the screen more than adequate for my needs. Perhaps Creative will further refine the touchscreen interface via future firmware releases.
In terms of battery life, this player delivers with flying colors. A new one on a full charge should last for days upon days of constant listening before needing another recharge. The battery will of course weaken after many months of use.
The sound quality of the X-Fi 2 is another selling point. The sound driver in this player is state of the art, and with the right headphones will perform at an audiophile caliber. The much acclaimed X-Fi 2 sound processing feature is well-worth using, too. The kind of clarity and dynamics it adds to the music must be heard to be believed! It breathes new life into your favorite archaically mastered 80s/90s album, and gives the right amount of dynamic range to that album you bought last year that was rendered nigh unlistenable by the loudness war. I've found 10-15% crystallization and about 30% expand to be the best settings for my own experience. Any more and the sound begins to be too harsh in the mid-ranges and too artificial/processed in general. This player finally includes lossless FLAC file support, but I don't think many will find use for it; FLAC is the most compact of all lossless audio formats, yet still too impractically large to be used exclusively on an mp3 player with so little memory. Ogg Vorbis support would have been truly wonderful, but sadly, no cigar. Creative was also very generous to include a set of high quality rubber-cushioned in-ear headphones with the player. Most mp3 players, iPod included, ship with cheap, uncomfortable earbuds that boast tinny sound. These earbuds are decently comfortable, and the sound quality is top-notch. The buds would be worth at least a $20 purchase by themselves.
I was very disappointed to find out that the micro-SD memory slot has to be accessed separately and can transfer to (but not merge with) with your main library, which is acceptable but very inconvenient. This was probably done to encourage buyers to purchase higher memory (more expensive) versions of the mp3 player instead of the 8GB model and a cheap SD card, but it's a bad move from a quality standpoint. Were it not for this letdown, I probably would have given this product a full five stars.
I have not really used the video feature of the player, so I will not be reviewing that. Other reviewers seem to have a positive opinion about everything but the conversion process.
I found the included Creative Centrale program to be pretty useless crudware. It doesn't work and it has the stench of software included for the sake of having software. The program couldn't sync part of my library, tried to install the latest firmware but failed, doesn't fix mp3 tags correctly, actually wiped some of my tag information, didn't recognize all my album art, and so on. Syncing from Windows Media Player or even simply copying files to the player's music folder guarantees better results.
In summary, this is a fantastic but not imperfect product, and a solid low-cost alternative to better known touch screen mp3 players.