ID: B002PK154S-R19ROBPYFH5ZWD-A1QKAENRXGOMG4
Category: Laptops
Product: Lenovo-Ideapad-2963-47U-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1QKAENRXGOMG4
ReviewerName: I. Fridman "K Fridman"
Date: November 24, 2009
Helpful: 56 of 62
Rating: 2.0
Title: Nice laptop, but beware of poor construction quality and bad customer service
Content:
I'll get straight to the point. 
Pros: 
1. It is thin and really light, just like they advertise it.
2. Performance is what you would expect from this kind of a laptop. It was handling everything I have no problem. It was even playing my mp4 1080p movie.
Cons:
1. It came preinstalled with tons of junk from Lenovo. I had to reinstall Windows from scratch as soon as I got it. I bough many laptops before but this one came with exceptional amount of trial software and junk from Lenovo.
2. I bought my laptop with Vista and "free" upgrade to Windows 7. When I called Lenovo and asked about the upgrade they told me that I have to pay shipping and handling  ($17) for them to ship me a CD. When I said that I don't even have a CD rom on this laptop, customer service rep had no clue what to say back. By the way, get ready for customer service located in China. The guy on the phone clearly had no idea.
3. Now to my biggest problem. Two month after I bought my laptop, I was removing and placing back a battery. When I was placing it back to the case something snapped. Apparently it was a plastic hinge that was holding my battery. Now my battery would not hold inside the case. I called Lenovo, and they told me to send laptop back to them, and they would determine if my repair is covered under warranty. 5 days later I got a call from them telling me that my repair would not be covered and I have to pay...$167 dollars to replace this part. Keep in mind that I paid $450 dollars for the whole laptop. So they wanted third of that to replace one plastic part. I called them back, and spoke with customer service rep, then a supervisor, but had absolutely no luck. At the end supervisor said that the best he can do is to send me to another Customer Service department that handles this kind of cases. I said fine. He said, they will contact you in...5-7 business days. This was after I did not have my laptop for 5 days already. I was beyond mad, and told them to send me my laptop back. Now I have a scotch tape in the back of my brand new laptop.
Conclusion:
I hope you have better experience with this laptop and with Lenovo in general, but beware, it has poor quality and poor Customer Service.