ID: B002PK13I6-R5YP4QTRNIHJP-A21GT3FWAU5911
Category: Laptops
Product: Lenovo-Y-550-15-6-Inch-Black-Laptop
ReviewerID: A21GT3FWAU5911
ReviewerName: Jae H. Han
Date: April 15, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 1.0
Title: Don't Buy This Laptop.
Content:
Before I launch into my vindictive diatribe, I would like to say that perhaps I am in error. Perhaps I did not take better care of my computer (although I doubt it, since my previous laptop from Acer lasted me a good 4.5 years, all through my undergraduate career, and had been subject to much more battering than this laptop), or that I should have been more sensitive to this computer's needs, but at this point, I am very convinced that I will never buy a laptop from Lenovo again. This is my first review, possibly my only review ever, but my experience with Lenovo has been so bad that I think you deserve a warning. 
Service Issues: 
1) Lenovo messed up my online order. I'm not even sure how this is possible. First, they said my CC did not get authorized. I called my bank. They said they authorized it. Lenovo denied it again. Lenovo told my bank to call them so they can work things out. Convoluted things happen. They do so, and I receive my laptop. Unfortunately, I'm charged twice for the same laptop, and Lenovo sends me a two copies of the same laptop. I try sending the first one back, but they do not give me a warning when the person will come to pick it up. Because of the nature of my job, I cannot simply just wait around all day waiting for the mailman. I hold unto the laptop. (my mistake)
2) I finally call Lenovo again to send in the extra laptop. They give me a code. I put it on the box, go to the UPS store and ship it in. A few weeks later, I get a notice saying that the shipment never arrived. I call, they look into it; apparently, they received a box without anything in it. At this point, exasperation ensues. How is that even possible? They file a missing box/shipment. The issue is, to my knowledge, still unresolved. 
Now, onto the laptop itself. 
1) Webcam breaks within 3 weeks. It picks up light, but monochromatically. Not worth using. (It was good when it worked though) 
2) Battery breaks down within 5 months. Laptop recognizes that battery is plugged in, but does not use it. I've been told that because the battery isn't part of the warranty, I have to pay for it myself. Fine. I'll do it once I finish my project and don't need a laptop. (FYI, you need to send in this computer back to Lenovo so they can fix it. You will be laptopless for a while, not sure how long since I cannot send it in until after one of my projects is completed. But, still a major major inconvenience.) 
3) Sound quality is terrible. The laptop sound system crackles often, and although it is loud, the incessant sound fuzz is just enough to just have me plug in my iPod instead directly into the laptop itself. I am not an audiophile, so people with more refined auditory systems might be really repulsed by the sound. 
3) As a minor pro, in contrast to the major cons, it IS a fairly light laptop. However, there is a great sense of fragility to this laptop, and does not feel at all sturdy. After my webcam and battery breaking, I'm just afraid that this machine is going to break down completely. I've stopped carrying it around as much, and have relegated it as a desktop-laptop, which of course, completely gets rid of the very idea of having a portable laptop in the first place. 
Conclusion: 
I wish my experience with Lenovo had been more positive, that they could get the order right in the first place, and that this laptop was not so fragile. Overall, there seems to be better options available, so I recommend you look elsewhere first. I wasn't suckered into buying this laptop; I thought it would be genuinely good. I do like that they put in Windows 7, that the processor is fast, the RAM quick, the keyboard "clicky". But, my personal experience with Lenovo has been so bad that I just cannot in good conscience recommend this laptop.