ID: B002MOGK5Q-R1Q4CN2PAIT15Q-A1IBKN1GXYJ3K4
Category: Laptops
Product: HP-Pavilion-DV6-1240US-16-Inch-Notebook
ReviewerID: A1IBKN1GXYJ3K4
ReviewerName: Dave
Date: December 20, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Older model DV6 - still a great notebook
Content:
My wife and I purchased a slightly different version of this laptop for her mother and I have been very impressed with the features and build quality (there are several DV6 models but they are all built on the same chassis). It is well constructed with a metallic toned black exterior (HP also offers versions in white). Take a good look at the shell art since it is something that may not appeal to everyone. My mother-in-law definitely appreciated having something a little more individual than the usual dull grey exterior. Despite the glossy exterior we haven't noticed much in the way of finger prints or any scratches despite the helping hands of our kids who love to "help" grandma with her computer. (There are some older DV6 models without art work such as the HP Pavilion DV6-1050US 16.0-Inch Laptop).) 
The specs for this model are set well above what the average home owner needs today which (in my mind) future proofs it nicely. If you are on a tight budget you can get what you need for less (look at the HP Pavilion G60 line). If you have a little bit more to spend and you want some headroom to handle your computing needs for the next few years this is a great choice. 
CPU - The 2.10 GHz Intel Core2 Duo Processor T6500 is a decent notebook processor. It can handle two software "threads" which means you can have the virus scanner running while you surf the web with no noticeable slowdown.  There is a quad core version of the DV6 out now that uses the new Intel "i7" processor, but I think for most home users the increased power requirements isn't worth the two extra cores.  If you expect to do a lot of video and audio editing then stepping up to the i7 would make sense.  If you are mostly looking to use Office type-applications and browse the web I'd suggest sticking with the Core2 Duo.
RAM - 4GB of DDR3 RAM running at 1066MHz is combined with a 64bit OS to which should provide more than enough memory for pretty much any application you can think of outside of extremely high end gaming. 
HDD - The 320GB drive is far more space than most users need (few people will use more than 100GB) but if you know you need more there are DV6 models with 500GB drives.
Graphics - This model is using the standard Intel 4500 graphics chipset.  It's not something you'll want to try and run the latest 3D gamer on but light or non gamers will be happy with it. 
Display - HP has a reputation for high-end displays and this one delivers. Tuned slightly for indoor use the 16" HP Brightview display is good enough for outdoor use though not as much as a more matte display. Indoors it is brilliant with surprisingly strong blacks (too many notebook displays are all brightness with no depth). I like that the screen provides a decent amount of vertical space without overdoing it. The difference between this and a 14" is surprising.  I should point out that newer DV6 models only come with a 15.6" screen.  Not a big difference but something to consider if you are trying to decide between this model and an older one.
Sound - Surprisingly good sound for a notebook. The speakers are well positioned and deliver a good range. I've heard better but it was on a $3K notebook. 
Battery - HP bundles their standard 6 cell Lithium-Ion battery.  The HP Pavilion DV6-1350US has a 12 cell battery (which you can also order separately from HP).  If you are on the road a lot the 12 cell is nice.  Home users who plan to plug in a lot may not care. 
Operating System - The newer models come with Windows 7 but this is an older model that comes loaded with Windows Vista Premium.  This is what our computer came with and we have no complaints.  I know there were bugs in Vista when it first came out but we found it to be much more stable than Windows XP.  
I don't have any serious "cons" for this computer. The "Touch Media Controls" for things like the volume (as opposed to buttons you push) are a little odd at first but we got used to them quickly and hey, they look cool when they light up.  I also don't find the included remote to be that useful but anyone planning to hook this up to their TV might like it.  I suspect most people will just put in a drawer and forget about it.
To wrap it all up: you can always buy more features for more money but if you are looking for a laptop with some higher-end features and upscale build quality this is an excellent choice.  HP spent money in the right places and has created a high-end laptop at a mid-tier price.  If you are looking for a Windows 7 version I think the HP Pavilion DV6-1350US which is one of the better values out there today.  If you are a student you may want to check out HPs "Academy" program which offers student discounts (it can be hard to find on HP's web site so you may be better off searching for "HP Academy").