ID: B002ONCCCU-R17TVI1RIYUJ3G-A1UN47MHWR7E6Q
Category: Laptops
Product: G60-530US-15-6-Inch-Black-Silver-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1UN47MHWR7E6Q
ReviewerName: Eugene W. Bartholomew "Gene Bartholomew"
Date: February 25, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 1.0
Title: Stay away
Content:
Bought this Jan 2010 days ago from Staples. This product has been a great disappointment. Nothing works properly and never did. Sometimes it won't start at all, it is overloaded with junk programs you don't want or need and most of them do not function until you got to the website of the manufacturer and buy an upgrade, the dvd program doesn't work unless you pay $100. The mouse and buttons are too sensitive. First part of Feb it died. Probably the worst piece of junk I've ever bought in my life. Beginning to think the HP name is garbage. 
Now I see some recent reviews with similar issues, something is wrong with these laptops, but like the Toyota's, they will probably ignore it, corporate management these days sucks, what happened to standing behind your products?
Then on the phone with India for 2 days, the hard drive is dead, they sent me a new one with no hardware,had to fight for operating software and they sent it, but it only lasted 30 days, and the issues others have with it not starting, etc were still there.
update 3/09/10-- now it has a new hard drive, about 14,000 updates and it will not operate all devices, sometime between last night and today it turned them off, wireless doesn't function and Staples is giving me BS DO NOT BUY ANYTHING FROM STAPLES, they do not stand behind their products, ****they give a 14 day cover unless you pay about as much as 2 laptops for additional coverage. HP is sending me a box to ship it back to them for "repairs" and I should see my laptop again within 3 weeks, they refuse to acknowledge these have issues and will not send me a new one. 
Not to mention tech support for HP in India is horrible, these are not IT people, they are reading from a guide and it takes hours, I have lost probably 48 hours just dealing with this, oh, and I'm typing this on my old PC, because my brand new HP will not function as it should.
If you still feel you must buy an HP product but it here or at Costco so at least you can return it. Staples/BestBuy etc are scams, their return policy is in fine print on the back of their receipts, they do not tell you upfront!!!