ID: B002OOWBZW-RT1UXAQCZ9E1V-A1MAGMZ2H7PFVC
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-T135-S1310-13-3-Inch-Ultrathin
ReviewerID: A1MAGMZ2H7PFVC
ReviewerName: Jiten Patel "JJP"
Date: December 28, 2009
Helpful: 10 of 11
Rating: 2.0
Title: WORST CUSTOMER SERVICE - BUY AT OWN RISK
Content:
I purchased this computer about a month ago.  Note that if you happen to have any problems with the computer, you will receive NO help from Toshiba.  One of the things I always do with my computers is create recovery media.  The computer comes loaded with Toshiba software that allows you to create recovery media; however, for whatever reason, the program that was installed on this computer runs into an error and aborts after almost almost finishing the first recovery disk.  As a result, I checked the box to see if the computer came with any recovery media.  This computer comes loaded with Windows 7 Home Premium 64 bit but the recovery media they sent me in the box was Windows 7 Professional 32 bit.  Normally I would not have cared but since I couldnt create the recovery media through the computer, I decided to call Toshiba to get the correct disks mailed to me.  WHAT A MISTAKE.  Their customer service is SLOW and inept.  First I spoke with a representative who listened to the problem and then told me I must register my computer by calling a different number.  So I did that.  Then I called customer service back, who then told me I would have to pay shipping and handling for the disks to be mailed to me.  I found this unacceptable, so then they transferred me (after a long wait of course) to their customer relations department.  There I spoke with their "manager," Alyca, who told me after putting me on hold, again, that since I purchased the computer through Amazon and not Toshiba, they cannot send me the proper recovery media.  The only way they would send me the proper media would be if I paid them a $25 shipping and handling fee.  Her claim was that Amazon sent me the incorrect computer.  This obviously does not make sense since the computer model number is correct and the computer itself is preloaded with the CORRECT operating system (Windows 7 Home Premium 64 bit), its just that the recovery media included in the box is not.  Someone please explain to me Toshiba's lack of any logical thought.  Obviously, the box had the correct computer but had the incorrect recovery media included.  Rather than correcting their mistake, they tried to pawn it off.  After reading some of the other reviews, I guess their lack of customer service is not anything new.  The computer works, but be aware that you are taking a chance, because if anything is not how it should be, Toshiba will not help you.  BUY THE COMPUTER AT YOUR OWN RISK.