ID: B002HY09SA-R3SIFJ4CPW0DDP-A2O3G3VXN0XO8E
Category: Laptops
Product: Lenovo-P8400-7417PKU-14-1-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2O3G3VXN0XO8E
ReviewerName: Mateo Morales "E"
Date: November 28, 2009
Helpful: 8 of 10
Rating: 4.0
Title: Lenovo T400 review
Content:
So, I have owned a Lenovo T400 Thinkpad for a good 3 months now, having switched from the popular and routine-wise HP made machines. I had always purchased HP; be it a desktop, laptop or printer...it always had to be HP. After using Lenovos at work and always hearing good things about these types of computers, I figured I would make the switch and try one. Weeks of research and asking around, I found that the T400 might be the best fit for me, and to my surprise, it has surpassed everything I thought it would be.
Now, a review cannot be complete without some criticism and praise. These types of machines are mostly business-oriented, meaning that they are very plaid in design and usually made to last, which holds up here. Now, if you have any experience with the Thinkpad series, you would know that sturdy keyboards and a red roller ball are usually standard. These T400's do have the red roller ball and, I feel bad saying this, the keyboard is not as sturdy as I have become accostumed to. Seems as if less attention was put into the chassis of the machine and more was put into the interior. The up-to-date Intel Centrino processor and large hard drive make up for it. I had no issues with any of the machine's features, especially on start-up...this laptop starts up faster than I ever expected. And don't even get me going on the battery life, I can go a full 4 hours and still not feel the performance waver at all. The excellent ventilating system keeps the laptop from burning through your lap and it's light-weight form can have you not even realize that you are working with an average-sized laptop. Usally today's netbooks are made to be small and light. The 14.1'' model is a nice-sized laptop and weighs just as much as a 10'' netbook would.
Of course I suggest that when it comes to buying a computer, laptop or desktop, you should purchase a machine that fits you best. These days, there are so many choices and sometimes it may be hard to come to a conclusion. I work best with a machine that can maneuver through various programs quickly and efficiently, especially when it comes to working with intricate programming languages and some music downloading, here and there. I guess I always went with HP in the past because that is what I was used to, plus, I found they were always fun to use when it came to managing pictures and playing games.
If you are into the modern designs of today's laptops, with all the beautiful covers, huge and well-lit displays and up-to-date graphic cards, then maybe this sort of machine is not for you...seriously, invest in a new HP or Dell-made laptop, they have gone to great strides to make computers that will not only dazzle you, but will also keep you coming back for more. If you are into the well-built and reliable machines, with not much else in terms of style and design, then a Lenovo is what you are looking for. These machines are made to work hard and give you the tools in order to get your projects done. Of course you can still play some high-end computer games and go into some inticate details on the T400, you just might not look as cool and hip in doing so.
Enjoy!