ID: B002PY7OKI-R3ECLRQ1ISQRD7-A33RFQ9T3G6IGS
Category: Laptops
Product: Dell-Inspiron-15-6-Inch-Black-Laptop
ReviewerID: A33RFQ9T3G6IGS
ReviewerName: Winst
Date: January 15, 2010
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 4.0
Title: Very happy so far
Content:
I have been using an ancient desktop computer for far too long, and to upgrade it would have been more trouble than it was worth. I had been looking into getting a laptop for quite a while, as I wanted something I could take to my band's rehearsals to record demos and burn copies for my bandmates to work on songs. My father surprised me with the Inspiron 1545 for my birthday a month ago, and so far I have had little to no trouble with it whatsoever.
I have not really used this laptop for gaming much, but everything I have used it for works fast and flawlessly. I do a lot of photo editing, art, and music recording, and even when multitasking everything runs smoothly. I have also never had an error resulting in any loss of data (this should be a given, but coming from the machine I had been using, it is a blessing). I primarily use simple single-track audio recording, but I have also installed and on occasion have used professional multi-track recording software for writing and recording music at home (one track at a time), and it seems to run very well on this system. The built-in speakers aren't the greatest quality, but I haven't found many laptops that do have great speakers. It is also very easy to plug it into my HDTV in order to use an extended desktop, which is very convenient for programs like Photoshop.
This laptop is plenty powerful enough for the average user's needs, and unless you're looking to do a lot of PC gaming I don't think you would need anything much more powerful. I did buy Spore and have played that a bit and it ran fine, but otherwise I cannot speak for its gaming capabilities. It would likely be sub-par for any graphics intensive games.
The only real complaint I have is that the touchpad occasionally seems to not want to respond properly. This is a rare occurrence, and taking my finger off of it for a few seconds usually seems to solve the problem, but it is very frustrating when it happens. Also, double-tapping the touchpad works as if you are holding the left-click (which I believe is standard), but it is far too sensitive and too easy to accidentally activate this feature. These are minor annoyances, but annoyances nonetheless and are primarily why I gave this product 4 stars instead of 5.
I have, fortunately, not had to deal with Dell's customer service (and of course I hope that I will not have to) so I can't speak for that aspect of the company. From what I have read they seem to have a growing reputation for poor customer service, but I will not subtract from my rating based on reputation. I will say that when I went to their site to download drivers I was recommended to try their download manager which did not work. Once you try to use this feature it will not give you the option to simply download the drivers directly until you delete your browser cookies. If they are able to over-complicate something as simple as downloading drivers (the most basic aspect of tech support) I shudder to think what I may have to deal with if real problems arise. 
I feel that I should point out that it is difficult to judge any Windows-based PC by reading user reviews. I have read a good many reviews of laptops where the consumer is unhappy with the product due to crashes, slowdowns, slow startups or other problems after a couple weeks to a month or more of use, and more often that not those problems arise due to viruses/driver conflicts/general software problems and not a flaw in the hardware itself. Most people that aren't very tech-savvy that have problems with a PC/laptop in the first couple months will immediately blame the hardware instead of their questionable browsing/downloading habits. Too many people don't realize that having fifteen instant messengers, weatherbug, and other unneeded programs running at startup WILL cause it to take longer to start up. I recommend anyone reading user reviews on these types of things to keep that in mind.
To summarize, this laptop has been great for me thus far, and other than some minor quirks with the touchpad I have really had no problems to speak of. It starts up fast, I never have problems with slowdown even when multitasking with more demanding programs, and though I was hesitant about Windows 7 after the abomination that was Vista, I find myself absolutely loving it. 
For the price, I would definitely recommend this laptop.