ID: B002BH4QN2-R1J56JA1SREO50-A25UMUHE8HKTCM
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV6-1230US-15-6-Inch-Entertainment-Laptop
ReviewerID: A25UMUHE8HKTCM
ReviewerName: GeorgetownStudent
Date: September 18, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 5
Rating: 1.0
Title: Good Product but Awful Customer Service makes it a no-buy
Content:
I purchased a HP Pavilion DV6 laptop computer in March of this year. On September 8, 2009, my AC adaptor burned out and stopped working.  I spoke to someone on the HP online tech support website that evening and she told me that it would take over a week to send out an AC adaptor.  After some pushing, she told me she could expedite it and have it sent to me to arrive in 3-4 business days (arriving either the 11th or the 14th at the latest).  I waited for the adaptor, and being a poor student spending thousands of dollars on applications, I did not want to go out and purchase the $70 replacement from Walmart.  When I had not received a confirmatory e-mail from HP about the chat conversation and the shipment , I called tech support the next day and they said the product would arrive in 3-4 business days.  I received a call from case management asking if the issue was resolved on September 14, 2009, and I told them I still had not received the part. The case manager, John, basically said "Well it takes a while."  I waited until Thursday September 17th to contact HP again and the Joyce from tech support gave me some story about how parts are backlogged and software issues and how it was unknown when I they would have a part available to ship.  She even had the nerve to suggest I ask around among my friends and borrow someone else's charger.  I told her the suggestion was ludicrous and asked her to speak with a supervisor.  She said the supervisor was busy and would ask the supervisor to call me that night.  Needless to say, I never received a call.  I called HP tech support at 8:30 this morning (September 18th) and Luv on tech support asked me to wait while he connected me to a supervisor.  I was on hold for 30 minutes to be told by Michelle, another case manager, that she cannot do anything for me and I have to wait for John, my case manager, to call back.  So in a nutshell, 10 days, still no AC adaptor, and still no help from HP.  Talk about great customer service - no respect for the time or needs of customers whose money they already have.  All I really want is an AC adaptor Fed Ex-ed to me overnight, and to arrive on Saturday at this point, or to reimburse me the $70 for a charger I will have to buy from Walmart.  As someone who spent several hundred dollars on a laptop so that I could do my work and school, this is not asking too much for a 7 month old computer.