ID: B002L3ART8-RPKX5RIAMEGT8-A1H84EZQYQ9XFR
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Electrolux-EL6984A-UltraSilencer-Canister-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1H84EZQYQ9XFR
ReviewerName: C. Wood
Date: March 1, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Awesome
Content:
This vacuum is very nice. I've been wanting to get a canister vac for over a year. The lady I bought my native american-inspired rugs from suggested it was not good to use an upright with a vigorous brush. And the guy that installed my curtains and blinds said I need to vacuum them once a year. My cheap upright was not up to the task. It had gotten a best buy rating by consumer reports a few years back and worked well on carpets but was extremely noisy. So when I ran out of bags for the upright I finally did my shopping and bought this electrolux. 
I was concerned about whether this vac would have enough suction. Consumer Reports recently reviewed a similar model and said it was deficient on suction. But in my opinion this one sucks mightily! I've hardly ever used  those suction relief valves on the handles of vacuums. I use it all the time on this one, and sometimes turn the motor speed down too. It has a cool speed adjustment that makes it even quieter than its almost silent self. 
Another little extra I like is the slot on the body where you can park the head. It's super-convenient to store. I can pull it out the closet and start vacuuming in almost one motion --- just pull the cord out and plug it in. Nothing to put together, don't have to go fishing in the closet for the end of the hose. 
I was a little surprised that it didn't have a motorized brush head. For some reason I thought it had that. But after using it I'm glad it doesn't. That would just make it heavier, and the light weight of this unit is one of its joys. It does mean that it's not quite as effective at cleaning the wall-to-wall carpets in the bedrooms. The friction makes the head hard to push on the carpet, unless you turn the suction down, and then you're not getting quite as much cleaning. So I may break down and buy some more bags for my old upright.
One positive surprise was the reach of the cord. I can clean my entire 1600 sf home (except for the far end of the master bathroom) with the cord plugged into one outlet.
Finally one last surprise is that when you pick the unit up while it's running, it blasts warm air in your face. The exhaust blows straight up. But it's blowing it through a HEPA filter, so the exhaust is probably cleaner than all the rest of the air in your house-- not your typical yucky vac smell. I guess they designed it like that so the exhaust doesn't blow the dirt around on the floor like an ordinary vac. Probably a good idea. 
I never spent this much on a vacuum before, but I don't think I'll regret it. This is sweet little unit.