ID: B0028ACYKE-RFYKYV5PDEMX2-A11L7TTGSRXP6C
Category: Laptops
Product: MSI-X340-021US-Slim-13-4-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A11L7TTGSRXP6C
ReviewerName: S. S. Kan
Date: November 28, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 2.0
Title: disappointed
Content:
Before I bought this I read a lot of positive reviews about this notebook. 
I m a student at university my macbook got stolen so I decided to get a netbook ( I also use a PC desktop alot so this is not a mac bias). I looked up everything and found the netbook 10" screens to be too small because I have to read research articles side by side so I found the X320
I don't play games and I watch videos on youtube once in a while, i mostly just type school work, so my demmands on a laptop or netbook is not high. basic requirements are: the ability to have several pdf, word or spreadsheets open at one time. usually around 5 or 6 and to watch video on the net time to time.
1)looks and keyboard: The X320 looks amazing on the outside but once you type on the keyboard its horrendous. the keyboard is a single plate slapped on top of the keyset. it bends up in the middle and has many unnecessary keys that screw you up when typing.  
2)The speed: The atom not being powerful i didn't expect much, but windows vista was put on this machine...(power hog much?) I often get lag and 5 second freezes when typing my essays. this and the fact that the keys are messed up makes it a terrible machine to type on
3) video: watching video on normal is fine on most cases but anything thats too fast things become blurry. on HD everything becomes a stutter and completely unwatchable
4)battery: it says 4 hours....its close to about 1hour or 1:30 at most when on low performance mode and you don't want to use low performance mode...because you can't do anything on it.
I want to return this and get something new but then i read the return policy for J&R company, it will take 4 weeks. I cannot afford to not have a computer for 4 weeks so i guess I am going to be stuck with this...
if you are considering this, do yourself a favor....don't. i bought this at 430 bucks and its not work it. i got to try the hp mini over thanks giving and was shocked to find it perfectly smooth and easy to work with. Its also slightly cheaper.. but its too late for me.