ID: B002P3KMP8-RW26GF147GJCL-A14NBQZIAV7MTS
Category: Laptops
Product: UL50AG-A2-Light-15-6-Inch-Black-Laptop
ReviewerID: A14NBQZIAV7MTS
ReviewerName: S. Lir
Date: February 8, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: A very good laptop for standard use
Content:
I purchased this laptop at the beginning of the year. I have been happy with the product. I will add however that the battery life does not reach 12 hours when you are using wifi and surfing the web. It is more like 8 hours. The design and portability of the Asus UL50 make it one of the slickest 15.6-inch DVD-drive-equipped laptops ever, but an ultra-low-voltage processor compromises its computing power. Because this laptop boosts a longer battery life, its processor (the 1.3 GHz Intel Core 2 Duo SU7300 ULV) does not run as fast as some Intel double core processors. This is fine for standard use, but if you want to do heavy multitasking you would do better with a more potent processor. People looking for a more powerful laptop in the same price range could for example consider the Toshiba Satellite A505-S6980, or the Sony Vaio VGN-NW240F/T, but the battery life will not be as impressive as the Asus.
This laptop uses the Intel integrated Graphics Media Accelerator 4500MHD, which has no dedicated memory of its own; it instead borrows memory from the computer's main memory (RAM) for graphics use. During normal usage it will draw a negligible amount, and while gaming for example, the 4500MHD will borrow what it needs to run the game; the 4500MHD will give up memory if the system requires it. Video playback is a key focus of the 4500MHD. Compared to other modern integrated graphic cards the 4500MHD is noticeably slower. This laptop uses a  5,400rpm hard drive, which is much slower than the  7,200rpm hard drive used by some laptops in the same price range, for example the HP Pavilion dv4-2045dx. Remember that lower rotations per minute translates into more power saving, and thus better battery life. Any way, you get the picture. You are getting greater battery life and portability, but compromising on lightning performance. This is fine for a normal work laptop, not one intended for heavy video editing or serious gaming.  
I can understand why this product's price has been raised of recent. This makes sense, given that in some respects it is a better laptop than, say, the Apple MacBook, which was selling at a premium to the ASUS. For example, the Asus comes with 4GB ram, not the meager 2GB ram of the MacBook. The Asus also has a much wider screen, and much longer battery life. Also, unlike the MacBook, the Asus is not proprietary hardware, something people valuing the freedom to install, or ditch, whatever they desire appreciate. 
This Laptop runs 64 bits Windows 7. Using this laptop has been a pleasure, but I use it mainly for online trading, reading news, writing, and watching videos; things that I often do at the same time with absolutely no problems. Because the battery life is so long, you can take this computer with you without bothering to carry its power supply, something that is quite liberating. Also, on less than 8 hours flights, you don't have to worry about running out of power while watching movies.