ID: B002TEDANO-R261Q5JP5ZWI8A-A92LZFL8EOLBP
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Timeline-AS1810T-8638-11-6-Inch-Display
ReviewerID: A92LZFL8EOLBP
ReviewerName: Don Nguyen
Date: April 30, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great little guy!
Content:
At first I was skeptical about purchasing this laptop because I had a bad experience with my previous Acer that I bought only a few weeks earlier.  However, after reading this great review, I decided to give it a try, and am very happy with the purchase.  I strongly recommend you taking a look at this review as it helped me out a lot.
[...].
I don't want to reiterate what the review says here, because it pretty much captures exactly how I feel about the laptop.  The only other thing that I want to add is that I've found it hard to find support on Acer products.  My last experience with Acer technical support did not help me any, and I couldn't find much information such as upgrading hardware and service manuals anywhere (through Acer or the world wide web).  
I bought this laptop because I love the convenience and portability of my netbook, but my netbook wasn't powerful enough for what I wanted to do.  This laptop is ultra light and portable and has great battery life (just like a netbook), and can complete most of the tasks that I want to do.  I wanted a laptop that I can do some work on but be able to watch online videos as well.  The processor and video card combination allows me to watch higher quality streaming videos which I couldn't do with my netbook.  I can also do some light gaming as well.  Web browsing, documents, e-mails...is ofcourse not a problem on this machine.  
Overall, I am very pleased with this machine and I would give it 5 stars, however, because of lack of support resources I have to knock it down to a 4.  Also mentioned in the above review is that the fan can get loud sometimes, but it doesn't bother me most of the time.  This is probably the only flaw that I could find with the machine itself.  This baby rocks!