ID: B002PAQXAE-R27DBON2DSX5B0-A1E99X973D1KOH
Category: Laptops
Product: UL20A-A1-Light-12-1-Inch-Silver-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1E99X973D1KOH
ReviewerName: L. Crandall
Date: January 14, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: The perfect multi-purpose, ultra-portable, all-day laptop!
Content:
Despite my initial ambivalence at purchasing a relatively new laptop model with very few online reviews, I am extremely satisfied with my purchase. I would recommend this notebook computer to almost anyone. It is *extremely* portable -- sometimes I slip it into my purse at the beginning of the day and have to check a couple minutes later to confirm that it is in fact inside! My previous computer was a 12" HP and this is a definite step up. With portability comparable to a netbook and the processing power of a regular laptop, this computer is the best I could find in the $500-$700 category. It is less than twice the price of a decent netbook but considerably more functional. Although I mostly use it for schoolwork, internet browsing, media viewing/listening, and photo editing, I appreciate the processing power and screen size.
A few quibbles:
The webcam is worthless. Preloaded bloatware dominates the startup programs. Touchpad Synaptics required immediate adjustment (although the current responsiveness is great and I haven't had any problems with a 'grey circle'). The clicking bar requires more force than I'm used to.
Aside from that, though, I couldn't be happier. Battery life is excellent and the power cord/brick are quite small, though I haven't had any reason to carry them around yet. The keyboard is definitely full-size, the screen is large, bright, and clear, the body construction is solid, and the computer is (this was a factor for me) very attractive and shiny and doesn't show fingerprints. I actually prefer it to the (considerably more expensive) Macbook Pro's out there. This laptop was a very good investment and I expect to be able to use it for many years to come. If you are looking for a reasonably priced computer with the portability of a netbook, the beauty of a Macbook, and the power of a higher-end notebook, the Asus UL20A-A1 is the right choice.