ID: B00296FQDO-R18JZW4BCOPGP8-A3RCGRXYBRKSRC
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: BUNN-Cafe-Pourover-Coffee-Brewer
ReviewerID: A3RCGRXYBRKSRC
ReviewerName: Danielle
Date: August 27, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 1.0
Title: Don't Buy This!  Overpriced & Doesn't Last!
Content:
I bought this coffeemaker about 18 months ago because I thought Bunn made quality products and I wanted it to last awhile.  If I had known this product was not going to last, I would have bought something cheaper.  That said, when I first received the coffeemaker I was thrilled, and while it was working, it did a good job.  But one day, there was water all over the counter, (which my dh initially blamed me for, thanks a lot Bunn).  We were able to mostly fix the leak in the bottom of the unit, but probably about a week later, one of the circuits shorted out when my husband turned it on, which made a very loud firecracker like sound and a lot of smoke.  We called Bunn, and they said once they received the unit, they would replace it with a refurbished one.  Since I bought the unit new, I would have preferred a new one in return, but I was grateful I was getting a replacement unit.  Well, after two months of waiting, we got the refurbed unit, and though it worked, it leaked like crazy.  So much so we called Bunn again, and they promised to send another refurbed unit and they guaranteed it would be leak free.  Well, after another two months of waiting, we got another refurbed coffeemaker (I think it was another one).  Not only did this one leak like crazy too, but after a week, it completely died.  Now we're arguing if we should get another refurbed unit or not and the Bunn is in the box--currently in limbo.  Luckily, a relative had an extra pod coffeemaker (a Senseo) and gave it to us, and although I don't like it as much as the Bunn, I have to give the Senseo two kudos:  1.  It is about two years old, was used a lot and it still works.  2.  It doesn't leak at all.
I am extremely disappointed in this coffeemaker to say the least.  It's caused me a lot of trouble and aggravation.  I would not recommend this coffeemaker at all.  I haven't heard of a pod coffeemaker that is reliable so I would just go with the cheapest one.  When it dies a year later, at least you're only out fifty dollars instead of three or four hundred dollars like I am.