ID: B002BDU8YC-R2B69YFX6RLC7-ALLNHB52CSK8N
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VAIO-VGN-SR430J-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: ALLNHB52CSK8N
ReviewerName: Michael Elderkin
Date: September 27, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Best 13.3"
Content:
Did a bunch of research, the Dell X13's run too hot and major fingerprint magnets. Neither of those problems with the Sony, although in a very quiet room, it's definitely not silent in 'silent mode'. With the P8700 4gb RAM and the ATI 4570 it's one powerful little 13.3" at just over 4 lbs. That form factor is exactly what I wanted and there really is nothing to compare to this Vaio. The screen is very very nice, it's definitely fast and I was surprised that I could put a couple of modern games on this thing and they ran smooth at high settings, like Far Cry 2...not that I have much time for that. Very nice keyboard, I do actually use the mode buttons once in a while. The only downsides are battery life, you'll be lucky to get just under 3 hours with wifi on and basic use. I was expecting at least 4 hours out of this modern machine, but truthfully I rarely do anything on full battery for almost 3 hours, so not a deal breaker. The build quality seems a little on the fragile side, maybe I just expected a more solid feel since it's 'magnesium' but it just doesn't feel all that solid, and honestly I think only the keyboard deck is the only metal, feels like the lid, bottom etc are just plastic like everything else out there (except Mac Book Pro's that feel very nice build wise).
Overall a great performer with good specs and reasonable price. If it wasn't for the free upgrade to Win7, free mobility bundle from Sony (extra battery, carry case, travel charger) and the [...] rebate I may have held out. The new HP Envy 15" with core i7 looks absolutely insane and I would strongly consider that now if I had to do it all over, however the size/weight is really just a bit big on those for me. And since I have a powerful desktop as well, I guess I don't really need that kind of desktop replacement unit.