ID: B002PAQXAO-R24CPN0RCE0N79-A1TP2RW7KDI5AZ
Category: Laptops
Product: UL80Ag-A1-Light-14-Inch-Black-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1TP2RW7KDI5AZ
ReviewerName: John Werner
Date: March 26, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Approaching perfection in portability and battery life
Content:
This is my third laptop in the past four years.  I believe I'm on a learning curve as to what matters, what is functional, and what is truly useful.  This laptop combines more of those touchstones than the previous three.  Asus has in the UL80A combined the two things I feel are critical...That is truly long battery life and portability. They have not addressed the next thing I would want in my wishlist - this laptop is still made of too much plastic even though the frame around the keyboard is metallic.  I earnestly do wish they would have made this a completely metallic chassis.
The above said, I am very impressed by the overall execution of Asus in creating a supremely lightweight laptop with truly state-of-the-art battery life.  I was a bit worried about the ultra-low voltage processor's speed, but now that I've had it over a month I can say it is generally not a problem and quite peppy for most uses.  The battery life amazes me at somewhere between 8 and 10 hours in varied situations.  The screen is wonderful and I'm use to a 15.5" ultra-brite Sony laptop which is no slouch, this one is better.  Maybe it's the LED backlight?  Whatever it is it is great even fairly usable outside in medium sunlight.  
What I truly do not like is the touchpad response.  It's verging on being a deal-killer for me.  I've tried various things to get it in line to no avail.  The only thing that helps is some adjustment by the user - a learning curve if you will.  I am almost able to master it with a very light and more precise touch.  Still, it's a real problem for me and I hope there is some kind of fix in future firmware or something?
In closing, Asus has hit a shot over the bough here.  With the metallic chasis addition and a true responsive touchpad this would have to be the much talked about Macbook Pro killer.  As it is, it's not...But, it's close enough at around half price.  A compelling laptop and with caveats mentioned, recommended.