ID: B00267S7TQ-RY3KVLTL95G4S-A38JGP4QM8WWC8
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D5000-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G-Vari-angle
ReviewerID: A38JGP4QM8WWC8
ReviewerName: R. Livingston
Date: September 12, 2009
Helpful: 39 of 59
Rating: 1.0
Title: BUYER BEWARE SERVICE ADVISORY ON THIS PRODUCT
Content:
I own this product and will agree that all the wonderful reviews and functions of this camera are true - when the camera works.... We purchased this camera in preparation for a recent overseas trip. We purchased it several months in advance in order to "learn" the camera. A week before our two week overseas trip, the camera shorted out, there was a complete "power fail" as I learned.  We thought we had purchased a dud, returned it. The retail store said their procedure is to send it back to the manufacture to be repaired and it would take 4 weeks. Mentioned no "service advisory" but were very sympathetic.  Because of our schedule they kindly gave us a brand new camera and went on our 2 week overseas vacation.  Mid vacation the same thing happened. You could imagine my anger and frustration over the situation. 
Upon my return rather then going back to the retail store, I first called Nikon.  The told me there was a "Service Advisory" on the product because it was prone to a "power fail" and we could just send it in to be repaired, no big deal.... Huh?  Kinda big deal. As it turns out they've known about the issue for quite some time but have done nothing to address it. I was informed that dealers and retailers know of this "advisory" and someone should have told us, but in my weeks of research and asking around prior to purchasing the camera I never came across such an "advisory". Despite much pushing and prying with the service department over the phone(not yelling, I'm not that kinda person), I could get no real responses. Here is a summary:
I asked, what guarantee can you give me that after you repair the camera this won't happen again? The response was "well, they've had repairs done and cameras sent back and for over 6 months or more, they haven't had any returned a second time."  I asked, so you've known about this for well over six months, why didn't you simply recall the product like most manufactures do? "We didn't want to inconvenience the customer." I said, isn't it more inconvenient to unsuspectingly purchase a product that will break in the middle of my vacation, only so I can send it in, be without it for a month and then constantly worry that the same thing is going to happen again for the rest of the time I own the product? They say, "well, it won't break again". My response, well I'm not sure I want to risk that. I'm not sure I even want this camera anymore. I don't think I'm interested in purchasing a Nikon product ever again. I would rather have a different brand if only for peace of mind. Is there anything you can do about that? Even a different, more reliable model?" "No, maybe your retailer would let you have a different model or brand since you bought their service plan." I reply, "really so they should be responsible for taking care of your inferior product? What incentive can you give me to stay with this camera?" And they say, "Currently we offer no incentives. All we can do is have you send in your camera to be repaired and send it back to you." 
The conversation continues on and on about like this. So my advice? Don't buy this camera unless you are interested in purchasing it, using it for a few weeks until it unexpectedly breaks mid-event and then you'll need to ship it in to be without your camera again for a few weeks, only to get it back with no "real" guarantee that it will never break again.  Consider this your real "service advisory"