ID: B00267S7TQ-R2WASHCYFU9QMC-A9I7WZJSJE6P1
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D5000-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G-Vari-angle
ReviewerID: A9I7WZJSJE6P1
ReviewerName: Mark Bain "ThriftyShopper"
Date: February 5, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: D5000 - Fantastic Camera for the Price
Content:
I did a good deal of review before buying the D5000 and it has lived up to everything that I have read about.  (dpreview.com had the most comprehensive info).  It¡¦s easy to use, great high iso, great picture quality, 4 frames per sec etc..   I¡¦ve had the camera for about 2 months and have shot over 2000 pics.  There will always be better DSLRs, but for the price at Amazon, it¡¦s fantastic.  I got the camera for $645 including the 18-55 VR lens, and the 55-200 VR lens for $120 more.  This is with tax and shipping included so this is equivalent to $700 + tax.  Show me a retailer or just about any online place that will give you both items for $700. 
One thing that everyone should do before buying is tryout the competition.  I tried out 2 Canons (XS, XSi) and 2 Nikons (D3000 and D5000).  I think both companies make great cameras.  The wonderful thing about major retailers like Best Buy and Sears, is that they will let you take them home and try them out and if you don't like them you can return them at no cost.  So I did.  I chose these camera since my ceiling on spending was about $750-$800 with tax for body and 2 lens so the D90 and T1i were out.
So I tested each of these models and really preferred the Nikons for usability.  I¡¦m moving up from a super zoom Panasonic Lumix (a great camera for outdoors, but suffer badly inside with low light) and the Nikons seemed to be more like the Panasonic.  Additionally, most of my photography is of my kids sports (volleyball, basketball, swimming both indoors and out) so I needed something that performed good indoors as well as outdoors without using the flash.  The Nikons were more responsive on the shutter and at 4 frame / sec the D5000 was the best.  The higher ISO on the D5000 is great and much better than any of the other 3 I tested.  I really liked the D3000 as well but the higher ISO was something I really need for indoor sports.  Of course you could get any of the these cameras and buy a fast professional lens for a couple thousand dollars and shoot some great photos º
I covered value, ease of use, and photo quality so here are some other comments on the ratings:  
Features/Display/Portability/Video ¡V great metering and autofocus choices.  The Video is ok, but I have only used it a couple of times. Easy to use menuing system with help on any screen.  A programmable button, live motion, flip out LCD screen.  It¡¦s lightweight for an SLR but bigger than a large point and shoot.
Battery Life has been excellent.  I¡¦ve only changed it twice since the initial charge and I¡¦m at 2000 pics.  I don¡¦t use the display much and almost always shoot with the viewfinder.  Plus a lot of my shots are in burst so it¡¦s not using the much per shot.
Storage capacity ¡V for an SLR I assume this is talking about the in camera buffer.  At the high JPG setting I have a buffer of over 20 pics so continuous shooting is no problem.  I¡¦m using and old Ultra 2 card (10 MB/sec) and that is plenty fast.  Even if when shooting RAW + JPG, I¡¦ve got a buffer of about 12 photos so its not an issue.  I love continuous shooting for sports but rarely need to capture more than 10 in row.  That¡¦s nearly 3 seconds of photos and eternity in sports shooting.
Software ¡V They ship a simple editor that does some RAW processing but I¡¦m fairly new to this so I can¡¦t say much.  If you are big on Photoshop, I¡¦ve used it on pics form this and can do some neat things.  You just need to get a plug in for this camera model.  No big deal.
I love this camera.