ID: B002UTJIVG-R1E80N24R2SJ1T-A1KZ3LARVHTZVC
Category: Laptops
Product: UX30-A1-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Windows-Premium
ReviewerID: A1KZ3LARVHTZVC
ReviewerName: Kristopher Milland "Novin"
Date: February 6, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: pretty sweet
Content:
When I got the laptop I was very happy. I've only had it for two days, but already the right mouse button on the pad has lost its "click," very annoying since I JUST got it. It's not such a big deal since it still works, but it's the reason I'm giving it 4 out of 5 stars. 
Battery life is so-so, but it's a three cell battery so I guess I can't expect much, it's not horrible, but don't stray too far from an outlet. Right now, not doing anything on the laptop and on some serious battery saving options, I have a little over 5 hours of juice. If you're surfing the web, or doing anything else you can expect about 4 to 4.5 hours on a full charge. 
The keyboard is great! I love typing on it, there's no flex and it feels like quality. I have medium sized hands and it's perfect for me. 
It should be noted that the top of the laptop is definitely brushed aluminum and the bottom is definitely plastic. I had read some reviews (maybe they had pre-production models?) where they said the top and bottom were metal. This is not the case. The laptop weighs in at just over 3 pounds 5 ounces in case anyone was wondering. 
The laptop looks great and I've already gotten a few compliments on it. It boots up pretty quickly and programs load pretty fast. It doesn't come loaded with a bunch of crap software either. I thought I was going to have to format and start clean, but it only came with some software from asus which is convenient for the laptop and I don't feel the need to delete. It came with a free trail of some sort of virus detector (not Mcaffee, thank god) which was easy enough to remove. 
Finger prints will be visible on the lid if you're eating french fries and have really greasy fingers. Otherwise the lid tends to stay pretty clean! 
That's all I can think of to write at the moment. I might come back in a month with an update. I might also send this back to Asus to fix the mouse pad buttons because it's going to drive my OCD crazy. Except for the annoying lack of quality in the mouse pad buttons, I'm very happy with the laptop over-all and would recommend it to other people.