ID: B002P3KMNU-R3EQQX7GO86WA0-A28F2SHFT7621
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30A-A2-Light-13-3-Inch-Silver-Laptop
ReviewerID: A28F2SHFT7621
ReviewerName: T. Stauffer
Date: October 24, 2009
Helpful: 9 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very good ultraportable laptop
Content:
This is an amazing laptop. Overall worth every penny. Was debating between this laptop, acer 3810, and the hp dm3. This to me seemed to be the best overall while the other had a few things i liked. First off I am a student and wanted something light and long battery life. So far(ive only had this since day after windows 7) the battery at 100% and with wifi on and surfing the web with low brightness the battery status says ten hours max and only goes down from there when i watch videos are start some heavier multitasking. As far as the processor the core 2 duo at 1.3ghz handle everything i throw at it thanks to windows 7. Itunes and mozilla open at same time shows little slow down and hulu and youtube hd fullscreen play great. Heres a list of some of the things i like and things i dont.
Good
Construction- aluminum lid shows this laptop has a little toughness despite being so thin.
Keyboard-chiclet took some getting use to but learning to love it. I dont notice much flex at all and like typing on keyboard.
Trackpad-was scared it was gonna be like the crappy eeepc bumpiness but it is smooother than i thought. and the clicker seems useable and multitouch scrolling is a little jittery but better than nothing.
Battery life- no exact numbers yet but better than my crappy hps that lasted 45min to 2 hours.
Windows 7- makes everything fast and intuitive
Heat- Runs cooler than any laptop ive used and it quiet also.
Asus porgrams- some are junk but some are useful
Bad
No bluetooth frustrates me but not huge deal easy to fix but it would have been nice it had been included.
No optical drive- fine with me makes it lighter and that is more important to me.
Graphics-Havent really tried any games but sure this isnt great would like option of a dedicated switcheable card. CULV+9400M/ION would be perfect even with some sacrifice on battery life. 4500mhd has handled streaming video fine for me just would like to do some fps gaming.
Just would like to say that acer 3810tg in europe and asia with ati 4330 need to come to america or asus put the 4330 in the ul30 and i would be happy add throw in some bluetooth. And i know the hp dm3 had the 105m but it also has optical drive making ti slightly heavier but i have had terrible experince with hp and never serious considered buying one just wanted to compare. anyway hopes this helps people considering this laptop because so far i am happy. also helps gizmodo named this best 13 inch ultraportable morning after i recieved mine.