ID: B002BH4QN2-R1I5EJHGCL4M68-A3Q370QSVB341X
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV6-1230US-15-6-Inch-Entertainment-Laptop
ReviewerID: A3Q370QSVB341X
ReviewerName: Mark L. Allen
Date: July 16, 2009
Helpful: 41 of 41
Rating: 5.0
Title: A Great HTPC
Content:
Note: I was going to buy this laptop from Amazon but I saw the same model at Office Depot for $650.
CPU - The T6500 is great for General usage. It's okay for gaming and HD playback too.
RAM - 4GB makes multitasking a breeze
Hard Drive - The main partition is 285GB with a 12.5GB recovery partition. 285GBs is a nice size to work with too it'll take long, long time to fill that up.
Graphics - The 4500MHD is okay for light gaming like Counter-Strike. It also does HD playback fine.
Sound - This laptop has great speakers. They don't get too loud but that's fine. The quality of the sound is great.
Battery - Will last a good long while and is better than most laptops. Most laptops have 6 cell batteries, this one has a 12 cell. Also the battery sticks out from the bottom. Some people may not like it but it is also a good thing because heat won't get stuck under the laptop.
Heat - This laptop will get warm from extended use. It gets slightly uncomfortable to type on because of it. It's not really that bad though.
Keyboard - This laptop is easy to type on. I can type really fast on it. It is a full keyboard with a numpad so most of your keys are there.
The Home, End, Pgup, PGdown, keys are above the trackpad and delete is above the backspace.
Trackpad - The trackpad may seem a little hard to move on at first but after a while it becomes smooth. You can also turn it on and off with a button conveniently placed above it if you want to use a mouse. It also has a scroll bar.
Other Thoughts - This laptop has 2 head phone hacks. Both are in the front. I'd prefer one in the front then one in the side or back for speakers.
HP Logo on the cover lights up when the laptop is on. This annoys me when I leave my laptop on overnight and I have to put something over the light to cover it because it's kinda bright.
The remote it comes with is kind of small and it can be difficult to push the buttons but it still is a nice addition so I don't have to get up and pause, skip, etc. on the keyboard. 
NOTE: This laptop only has the touch volume controls and a touch wifi button. There is no Play, Pause, Stop, etc. touch buttons on this model. That was kind of a disappointment because I have to press Fn+F12 if I want to change songs.
Overall this a great laptop and I am pleased with my purchase