ID: B002M3SOC4-R201DGHXOIP24H-A27NDRYEHFTVM
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-touch-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A27NDRYEHFTVM
ReviewerName: G. S. Green "cannonball"
Date: February 9, 2010
Helpful: 19 of 29
Rating: 1.0
Title: A clumsy Range Rover when I needed a well running Corolla
Content:
The first time I got into the backseat of a Range Rover, I was shocked. For all the rig's expense and prestige, the backseat was so cramped and uncomfortable my legs went to sleep. And even at only 5'7", I had to hunch over in the seat from the total lack of head space.
That's exactly how I felt when I bought my iPod Touch. I was looking to replace an iPod nano (which I loved but was nearing its capacity), an older Palm Pilot I used primarily for scheduling, and a little digital recorder I used as a songwriter to capture new song ideas. The iPod Touch wasn't an impulse buy - I did some research and talked to friends who had them and kept encountering glowing reviews.
What I found is that the three applications I specifically bought the Touch for are particularly awkward. The music app is really hard to navigate on the move. I use my iPod primarily at the gym and at home when I'm doing chores. The navigation buttons on the basic iPod are straightforward and simple even on the treadmill or in the weight room with sweaty hands. But the Touch requires a high degree of accuracy. Sweaty fingers slip off the touch pad, and many of the function touch areas are so small it's hard to hit them dead-on when you're moving. The music app also has a really annoying habit that you can't seem to disable - defaulting back to whatever song you were playing last and resuming play whenever you power back up, regardless what application you're entering.
The calendar and voice memo apps aren't any easier. I stopped using my Palm Pilot because entering meetings live into the handheld was so cumbersome.  The Touch is even worse.  Instead of just a numeric keypad to enter start and end times, there are dials you have to spin like the dates on a "paid" rubber stamp.  And the Touch has no built in mic, so using the voice memo app requires either the headphones or another mic plug-in.
If I had the choice to make again, instead of the iPod Touch I'd just get a bigger iPod, a calendar book and a mini digital recorder.