ID: B002BDU8ME-R34D2WWWZSG2HL-A2IPC51HL9UUYF
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VAIO-VGN-CS310J-14-1-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2IPC51HL9UUYF
ReviewerName: Amy Y. "Tell me, what is it you plan to do wi...
Date: February 20, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 1.0
Title: Pretty in pink but the fan really stinks.
Content:
I love this laptop.  I love that it is cute and, ok, I'm going to be politically incorrect here and say 'girlie'!  
Overall, I think this is a quality machine.  I like the keyboard- the keys are easy to press without being hypersensitive.  The touch pad works well- my last Compaq laptop had a cruddy pad and it was terribly annoying and frustrating. 
Plenty of storage and great performance for most tasks.  I am a photographer part of the time and use this laptop to process a great many RAW files.  It is a little on the slow side for resolving the images but the files are huge and I have not set this computer up to maximize the graphics handling.
It has a decent camera and I have installed MS Office and some other software.  It did come with a bunch of stuff pre-loaded, much of which I uninstalled.  It would be nice if the first time the computer booted up it wasn't like some kind of multimedia ad campaign, but easy enough to remedy.
So, finally- the reason this is getting one-star?  The fan has been going nuts.  It runs constantly, even when I only have one window open.  And it's not just that it runs... it makes a horrible noise as it does so- some people have compared it to various aircraft- jumbo jet to helicopter.  I've done lots of research online in an effort to remedy this issue and it looks like TONS of Sony VAIO's have the same problem.  Though I am still under warranty, there is no service center in my area- AND I LIVE ON THE PERIPHERY OF SILICON VALLEY!  I would have to pay to send the laptop in and no guarantee on how long it will take to repair, some customers have waited a month or two to receive warranty service!  Crazy!  I think I need to send it in but I am dreading having to switch to another laptop especially if it is going to be a couple of months.
Still, I can't decide what is more annoying- a computer that I can't have a conversation over because it is so loud or having to deal with Sony's so-called "customer care"- which after a couple of calls on the fan issue, I've found to be more of a "customer I-don't-care" department.
This situation, while maybe is a risk you run with any complex electronic equipment, has entirely soured me on the idea of buying a Sony anything.  I think it is pretty miserable that the company knows there is an issue with these components and yet haven't seen fit to offer their consumers a fix. 
That's what I get for allowing the pretty pink color to influence my purchase choice!