ID: B00267S7TQ-RU83SVGM9FPHI-A23LH97SUNNQQU
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D5000-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G-Vari-angle
ReviewerID: A23LH97SUNNQQU
ReviewerName: Mark E
Date: November 22, 2009
Helpful: 30 of 31
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent for entry, mid-level, and prosumer users.
Content:
This is my first DSLR camera, and I can say right off that it's very easy to use and takes amazing photos.  I chose the D5000 because a friend who is a professional photographer recommended it saying  I should invest my money in lenses not the body.   I believe this is true, but there is a consideration to make when purchasing the D5000, or the other Nikon entry-level cameras such as the D40/D40x/D60/D3000, and that has to do with the auto-focus motor.
The D5000, which tops Nikon's entry-level line, does not include an auto-focus motor in the body, instead it relies on a "silent wave" auto-focus mechanism in the lens (AF-S).  This is supposed to be very quiet and fast, though I don't know if that's true compared to the screw-drive motors used in other camera bodies.  It's also supposed to be more cost effective and allow for a smaller/lighter camera body, but again I'm not sure if that is quite true or exactly why Nikon chose this option for their entry level line (if anybody knows more about this please feel free to comment).  However, this option will limit users who already have a collection of Nikon AF lenses (not AF-S), as well as those purchasing a Nikon for the first time.  The AF lenses will work fine but have to be manually focused.  That said, more experienced users would probably not be purchasing an entry-level model; a more appropriate starting point would be the D90.
So as far as lens compatibility?  The first lens I sought to purchase was a fast prime (FFL) unit for indoor/low-light and portraits.  I looked at the low-priced 50mm f/1.8D AF, but the auto-focus is not compatible.  Same with the faster and more expensive 50mm f/1.4D AF, as well as the 35mm f/2D AF. Also, no luck with the Tamron or Sigma FFL units, though I did see some Tamron zoom lenses with AF-S compatibility.  I became very concerned that my options would be severely restricted, and perhaps I would need to return the camera and upgrade to the D90 or go with the Canon T1i. However, I discovered the 50mm f/1.4G SIC SW, which came out last year, and also the more moderately priced 35mm f/1.8G AF-S DX which currently sells for about $200.  That unit came out earlier this year (I haven't chosen yet). I also went to the Nikon homepage, and noted that 30 of the 50 current auto-focus lenses listed were AF-S, so while the options are limited, the average non-professional user shouldn't have a problem finding an appropriate lens for the occasion - including many professional level models. I also suspect that Nikon will include AF-S in more if not all future auto-focus lenses. Users will find the least options with Nikon's wide-angel, standard, and telephoto models. Most of the super telephoto, wide-angle zoom, standard zoom, high powered zoom and close up lenses include AF-S.
PROS of the D5000
1. Has virtually the same image sensor as the D90 and D300. This puts the D5000 in good company, and one could argue it's more of a prosumer or mid-level class camera than its entry-level predecessor, the D60.  It's almost a D90, but just lacking of a few options and the D90's ruggedness.  The difference is about $300.
2. Flip LCD; I considered the Canon EOS Rebel T1i, and while both the Canon and Nikon have their advantages, both are very similar with the exception of Nikon's flip LCD.  I consider this more than just a novelty.  It not only protects the screen but is practical in some situations, such as shooting photos overhead.  The D90 does not have this function either.
3. Easy to use; I got fantastic pictures right off using the auto mode as well as the pre-set scene selections.  However, users are not restricted to these options and experienced photographers should enjoy the camera alike. Just like the D90, the D5000 has scene modes on the dial, but it also has 13 additional modes from the menu which adds benefit to novice users. I tried the night landscape and sunset with excellent results.
4. The lens is very good for a kit, and includes Vibration Reduction (VR). The lens by itself currently sells on Amazon for about $185 new, as appose to the model without VR which is currently priced at $110. Users may also want to pick up a fixed lens and/or higher power zoom, but the kit lens should be fine for most users. That said, I'm sure this camera could be taken to another level with the right lens. 
5. Long Battery Life
6. Compact / Light weight 
CONS    
1. Price; the D5000 may be priced a little high for an "entry-level" camera, but again it's $300 less than the D90, and in many ways comparable. It's also slightly less than the Canon EOS Rebel T1i.
2. Ruggedness; some may say it's a little "toyish" with the plastic finish, and being light (which isn't a bad thing), but overall it looks sharp and is well built.  I handled the D90 and some of the pro lines, they felt a little more rugged, but of course are designed for more abuse (and cost much more).    
3. AF-S auto-focus (see above)
Bottom line, if you're looking for a great camera with the ability to produce real quality photos, but you don't want to spend a small fortune, the D5000 is a great choice.