ID: B002ONCC98-R2MU7LGIGHQ2IL-A2B8J7WR2Y1D2I
Category: Laptops
Product: G71-340US-17-3-Inch-Black-Silver-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2B8J7WR2Y1D2I
ReviewerName: D. D. Umstot "teka3"
Date: January 19, 2010
Helpful: 6 of 17
Rating: 2.0
Title: Great potential, but lots of problems
Content:
Design needs improvement, January 19, 2010
By 	D. D. Umstot "teka3" (Seattle, WA USA) - See all my reviews
   
I bought this computer thinking it would offer hi-def capability, but it does not. It does offer an HDMI connection which I have not tried. There is no ability to play blu-ray dvds. Thus, it is just a nice wide-screen for playing non hi-def dvds. The wide screen looks nice, but it is more difficult to web surf because of moving the curser all the way across the screen. A standard size screen laptop would be lighter and easier to use if you are not using it to play dvds. 
Other issues: 1. Shinny black cover shows fingerprints and looks awful unless you constantly wipe it down. 2. Only 3 USB ports means you need a separate USB dock or are constantly plugging and unplugging. 3. Sound built in is very soft--almost inaudible even at max volume--I had to buy external speakers. 4. Everything except sound plugs in at the side, making it very cluttered. Seems some of the sockets could have been placed in the rear. 5. Power plugs in the right side, an inconvenient location. 6. Stainless steel inside makes it difficult to feel mouse pad--everything feels pretty much the same. 
HP service is also a problem. It has been outsourced to somewhere in South Asia and the people responding do not seem to understand what they are doing. I tried to get a fix on the low sound problem, but after many emails there was no satisfaction--you have to buy external speakers it seems. I also have a different dvd drive than the one specified. The service people could not answer why or what difference the drivers might make in performance.  It took at least 7 emails to find out that this computer cannot do any form of hi-def. 
I would not have bought this computer if I had known of these shortcomings.