ID: B0029ZA5WW-R25W8DNK0ITBE8-A1UJ2XH83SA0M6
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV7-2170US-17-3-Inch-Entertainment-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1UJ2XH83SA0M6
ReviewerName: V. Limon
Date: September 6, 2009
Helpful: 13 of 14
Rating: 4.0
Title: Impressed
Content:
I loved the look of this machine out of the box. It's thin, with a very large screen. 
Pros:  Huge Screen, designer case, fast cpu(ranked in top 30 for notebooks), graphics card(ati! 1GB of gddr3 ram!), good support from hp, 2 speakers w/sub, 
       hd audio,hdmi out, good screen resolution(1600x900), full keyboard, 500GB Hard drive, 4GB of ram.   
       
       It can run todays computer games very well. Applications open very fast. Very good integrated mic is very sensitive and can pick up anything.
Cons:  low battery life, heavy, bloatware, glossy screen and chrome touchpad.
       The battery life is way to low to really consider this machine something you would use on trips or flights over 2 hours long without plug            
       available. I also didnt think that laptops could be heavy untill I carried this laptop around the University of Texas campus. The glossy screen 
       reflects everything and anything making it hard to see the screen outdoors or near a window with bright light coming through. The chrome touch pad
       is not as good as a plain jane plastic touchpad in that when you drag you finger, there is a little too much resistance for my liking( a little less
       friction than rubbing your finger across the bottom of a shoe, unless your fingers are free of any residue, ie oils., then its smooth).
Overall this machine is a great laptop allowing me to keep my desktop off now since I purchased it. Even though my desktop is a high end gamming rig, this laptop has essentially replaced it. That being said, there are probably those of you who will not want to lug it around where ever you go. If you do, do purchase a laptop backpack as a brief case design even with one with a strap would tear into your shoulders. The battery life is annoyingly low, but is expected from a laptop with a large screen and discrete graphics card. If you want more battery life choose a laptop that has integrated graphics, but performance will be much lower. The only laptop out there that I have seen with performance and big screen, with an 8 hour battery life is a $3000 mac! Vista is no isssue here as the machine is perfectly capable of running it flawlessly. THERE HAVE BEEN NO ERRORS OR BLUESCREENS!!!!! The user who rated this machine with 1 star messed up his machine him self. He is obviosly a novice user. You only get bluescreens on computers due to user errors 99.999% of the time. I have had no issues at all with this notebook.
I ordered 2 of these laptops for my wife and I. The laptops came packaged very good, with no defects, and were delivered the next day after the order was placed. Both screens had no dead pixels what so ever and were perfect. All extra ports(useb, hdmi, ect) do not get in the way of each other. The laptops came with the hp mini-media remote, ac adapters, user guides, and pollishing cloths. Setup is a breese with HP's setup program. Do note that HP Games from wild tangent is much like a video game arcade, where you purchase tokens to play the games. 500 tokens a month for 6.99 per month. All antivirus software and office software is a trial version. I recommend unistalling the trial versions of office, hp wild tangent games(the games are not free!!!), norton(horrible, bloated, antivirus software), and the sling box software(uselesss without a slingbox for your tv). Free antivirus programs are out there.
I am giving it only 4 out of 5 due to the battery life. Otherwise you will not be disappointed. PC PitStop is a website that benchmarks computers, it ranked my system among laptops in the top 9% in the world, graphics got the top 3%. 
Windows Vista Performance Index Ratings:
Processor: 5.2
Memory(RAM): 5.9
Graphics: 5.9
Gaming Graphics: 5.6
Primary Harddisk: 5.6
  
Any questions just comment on my post.