ID: B002OL2M18-R198505B0K2HN5-AQIJ3ZEEVCIKU
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Qosmio-X505-Q830-TruBrite-18-4-Inch
ReviewerID: AQIJ3ZEEVCIKU
ReviewerName: Kaio
Date: February 2, 2010
Helpful: 36 of 37
Rating: 5.0
Title: Stunning, Powerful - Best Laptop I've Owned by Far!
Content:
Cosmetically, the Qosmio looks like a technological piece of art; under the hood, it gets even better. Every time I lay my hands on it, I'm thrilled I made this purchase.
I originally got the X505-Q850 and am posting that review here as well since the 880 is essentially the same laptop and I thought this review would be helpful to people....
I'd been hoping to put off buying a new laptop but the screen on my old HP was failing and I just can't justify sinking money into obsolete tech. I convinced myself I was willing to live with the funky lines running through my screen in favor of being frugal, but with each malfunctioning pixel, it was clear I had to buy a replacement soon.
If you're like me, a new laptop isn't something to be taken lightly. It's a decision I'll have to live with a good many years, so selecting the right model is important since I'll be using it on a daily basis. Well, I'd like to say I did exhaustive research comparison shopping every new laptop, but that simply wasn't the case. I had two basic criteria that eliminated 99% of the laptops on the market: I wanted the largest screen possible and a lighted keyboard.
Enter Qosmio...
(Insert angelic harps here)
Thankfully, Amazon makes it easy to search laptops by attribute like screen size, and the first laptop that came up on my search was the Qosmio x505-Q850 -- the pictures were more reminiscent of an elegant sports car than laptop -- it was love at first sight. The screen was a whopping 18.4 inches, which is huge for a laptop, and much to my surprise, it even had a lighted keyboard!!!
(Angelic choir join the harps and crescendo for dramatic effect...)
Could finding my perfect laptop be this easy? "Calm down," I tell myself, "looks aren't everything." The price isn't cheap, yet it's nearly half the cost of Alienware, it's nearest rival in specs and looks. Excitedly reading the product info, I was thrilled to see the Qosmio's feature set is just as brilliant on the inside as it is on the outside. With the latest quad core processor, a blazing fast solid state drive for the OS, a 2nd SATA drive, 6gb of memory, the latest NVIDIA graphics card, Bluetooth, HDMI output and Blu-Ray drive, this Qosmio is a powerhouse indeed.
Delving deeper, I learned this new Qosmio had just been released and was in limited supply. Even buying direct from Toshiba was a 2 month wait. Amazon had a few in stock but quickly sold out. With more pixels disappearing on my old HP, I kept a keen lookout hoping someone would get the Qosmio in stock soon. I was hoping to buy at Amazon and get triple points on their credit card (every 2500 points gets me a $25 gift card and triple points on a laptop would be near 6000!!) but alas, a different retailer got in a small quantity, and much as I hated to do it, I cheated on Amazon and made my purchase elsewhere.
When my Qosmio arrived, it was a euphoric experience. The box is red and black with a huge red Q on it and the same detailed design that's on the laptop itself. As I peeled back the box tab to open it, the inside flap had little red letters that said "Enjoy your laptop." My heart fluttered, "I will," I thought to myself, "Don't you worry."
Angelic harps reach their apex as I open the Qosmio box. And there it was -- emerging through light beams -- with its high gloss black finish glistening, and points of light sparkling off red metallic accents. I challenge anyone to find a more stunning looking laptop.
Okay, so literary embellishments aside, this really is a great laptop. And Windows 7 is pretty awesome too. Boot up time is lightening fast; 45 seconds tops from the moment I hit the power button and I can click on anything and get going instantly. And this new processor is a total beast too. Photoshop CS4 opens near instantly. A 100gb backup took barely over an hour. And rendering video editing is blazing fast too. I'm not a gamer, so I have nothing to report there, but judging by everything else, it ought to be equally fast in that department.
"Gaming Laptop" is just a euphemism for Fast!
If you see a computer that's touted for "gamers" don't assume that's all it's good for. "Gaming computer" just means fast, and who doesn't want a fast computer?? I've seen several reviews that did speed tests pitting this new Qosmio against its rivals and it outperformed them with ease. Granted, it was the only one with this new processor and as others follow suit, the speed comparisons will level off.
Blu-Ray Rom vs Burner
ROM basically means this drive plays Blu-Ray disks but doesn't burn them. (It does, of course, burn DVD+-RW and CDs.) At first, I was disappointed Qosmio didn't have a Blu-Ray burner. But then I realized I'd rather archive all my video to MPEG4 or WMV and watch it directly off Media Share. I already use Media Share to listen to all my music, so why not do the same with video too? It's way more convenient to access MP3 files digitally than it is to load a CD into a player, just like it's easier to do backups with external hard drives as opposed to disks. Digital files are just faster and more convenient, so a Blu-Ray burner may already be meaningless for my purposes.
HDMI Output
One of my favorite features of the Qosmio is the ease with which it can be connected to my 50" plasma! Just run an HDMI cable from your computer to your plasma and it's good to go! Audio is automatically cut from the laptop and plays out the TV instead. And the picture is full 1080p HD! Play any video clip, surf the web or watch a Blu-Ray movie all on your plasma!! Very cool!! Oh, and in case you're wondering, the Qosmio uses a standard HDMI cable, not the mini size seen on camcorders. And Qosmio automatically detects the HDMI signal and turns on an off the external display automatically. You can have both screens active at the same time, or choose between the two. Combined with my Philips Wireless HDMI transmitter and it all couldn't be easier to use.
Lighted Keyboard
I've read some forums where people were upset the keyboard doesn't stay lit all the time and turns off after so many seconds. NOT TRUE -- the keyboard CAN be set to stay on all the time. On your Qosmio, just go to: >Start >Toshiba >Utilities >HWSetup >Illumination >then under "Keyboard Backlight," click the radio button "FN" then check the box "On." After you reboot, you'll be able to turn the keyboard on and off by using the "FN" + "Z" keys. Personally, I have my keyboard set to stay on all the time, and naturally, it turns off automatically when the computer is shut down. It's also worth mentioning that the keyboard itself is very smooth and QUIET! I don't know about you, but clackety-clack keyboards drive me nuts! No reason why they can't all be virtually silent like this Qosmio's. I have to strain just to hear a sound -- perfect!
No Crapware
I hate it when I buy a new computer and it's loaded with garbage programs that basically amount to advertisers littering all over my new hard drive. Thankfully, Qosmio comes with very little corporate garbage under the hood -- a Microsoft Office trial, Quickbooks, Toshiba Online Backup -- oh, and that crappy Norton I got rid of on my first bootup. Aside from that, it's pretty much a clean install with only the necessities, and I'm thankful for that. I'll install my own programs, thank you very much! Incidentally, Toshiba did a good job of including some helpful utilities and a decent DVD/CD burning program, so kudos there.
Harman / Kardon Speakers
No, these aren't going to fill a room or blow anyone's hair back, but compared to other laptops I've encountered, these speakers are great! If I'm out on the go, they're just fine and plenty powerful. But when I'm home, I do plug in a set of Altec Lansings for a fuller, dynamic sound. But truth be told, I don't listen to music off my laptop. But I do have it connected to my DirecTV receiver and listen to music on my home theater system via Media Share. There's nothing like it!
Eco-Mode
I applaud Toshiba for including this feature but it's nothing I'll ever use. Basically, you can setup this feature so that at a push of a button, your the Qosmio will conserve energy and you can feel good about reducing your carbon footprint. That's all well and good but I didn't spend 2 grand for a sluggish computer. I paid for speed and I want speed, I'll deal with my carbon footprint elsewhere. I take the bus most places, so I have most people beat right there. I'll burn my laptop as fast as I please; thanks much.
Face Recognition Login
Yes, you heard me -- this Qosmio has a built in web cam that's good for video calls via Skype, but it also does one better -- the built in web cam also enables the use of face recognition software in lieu of a password for login! Cool!
Fingerprints
The high gloss finish of this Qosmio is stunning but it also picks up fingerprints with ease. Personally, I don't mind. I wouldn't want to sacrifice the Qosmio's lux look and don't mind wiping it down to keep it shiny and clean. Besides, we've all seen the reports that say people's keyboards have more germs on them than a public toilet, so it's a good thing to wipe your laptop down frequently no matter what.
Solid State Drive
I credit Qosmio for wanting to be on the cutting edge but the solid state drive on this thing is way too small -- only 64gb. It does have a 2nd 320gb SATA which beats most competitors since it spins at 7200rpm. But the SSD is still small for my taste. To make matters worse, the partitions only give 47gb of usable space. The rest is allocated to a Recovery partition and a hidden partition that contains a backup image that can restore your computer to its out of box state. This could be helpful if you're on the go and something happens but I did make my DVD backup disks as well just for good measure. I don't mind how the partitions are laid out, I just need a bigger SSD and plan to upgrade as soon as the price drops from the stratosphere to something reasonable. But having said that, the speed of this drive is amazing so I'll gladly make do in the meantime. I installed my most taxing programs on the SSD and moved all my documents to the secondary SATA. Thankfully, Toshiba included an easy utility that helps migrate the user files to the secondary drive so as to help conserve space on the SSD.
Windows 7 64bit - NOT 32bit
The description says 32bit but this is actually 64bit Windows 7 Home Premium. I upgraded with ease to Ultimate and it did take less than 10 min just as advertised.
Helpful Hint #1:
check my other reviews for the perfect laptop cooler: NZXT ACC-NT-CRYO LX Aluminum Notebook Cooler 120MM Adjustable Fans (Black) It's the perfect fit for this Qosmio!
Helpful Hint #2:
check my other reviews for a great 25' HDMI cable: GTMax Premium High Speed Gold Plated HDMI Cable
Helpful Hint #3:
check my reviews for a great remote control for your new Qosmio - watch blu-ray movies and surf the web on your plasma TV:  Gyration GYR4101CKUS Air Music Remote with Compact Keyboard
Bottom Line:
There are far too many features to go through them all, but suffice to say, this Qosmio x505-Q850 is truly on the cutting edge. I give it my highest recommendation and am totally satisfied with it in every way. If you want a fast laptop that's on the cutting edge and looks great too, this Qosmio is your WINNER!!!