ID: B002ONCCGQ-R1T8EV9NG1D2OV-A3NVUFVMKV2178
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DM3-1030US-13-3-Inch-Silver-Laptop
ReviewerID: A3NVUFVMKV2178
ReviewerName: G. T. Craig
Date: February 28, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: A fantastic, highly mobile laptop!
Content:
The first thing that you notice about the DM3 is the look, and feel. I've always been pleased with HP laptops (also have a DV7 and D9000), but HP has really outdone themselves with this one!
The brushed aluminum skin makes this laptop appear much more expensive than it is, plus it masks fingerprint and smudges perfectly! (Although the shiny trackpad is a fingerprint magnet.)
And the feel: this is a featherweight computer! (Bear in mind I'm comparing to my monster 17" DV7 though!) It is very thin, and at only 4.4 lbs, should be easily totable for most anyone!
Open the lid (nice smooth hinge feel), and you're greeted by a Macbook-like chicklet keyboard and more brushed aluminum. I really, really like the keyboard, and maybe even a bit more than my DV7s keyboard, which is itself a dream to type on. The individual chicklet style keys seem to reduce "fat-fingering" typing mistakes, and  they're crisp and responsive. The only minor con I can think of here is they're a little loud if you are a hard typist (like myself). But on the plus side, they don't feel wimpy, and those of us who bang away on the keyboard need not worry.
The LED backlit screen is razor-sharp, and just seems easier-on-the-eyes than a fluorescent backlit LCD (though this could be a "placebo effect").
Boot time is very, very respectable, considering the AMD Neo is only running at 1.6GHz (dual core, though). The 4GB RAM and 320GB hard drive are pretty standard on mid to high-level notebooks these days, and perform as expected (which is to say nicely!).
I'm not a big gamer, so haven't attempted games on this, but I'd venture to guess if you're looking strictly for a high-octane gaming laptop, this probably isn't it. That being said, the ATI Radeon 3200 easily handles the photo-processing tasks I've thrown at it.
I could go on and on, but let me try to sum it all up via pros and cons:
PROS: 
     Lightweight
     Nice look and feel, people will think you paid much more than you did
     Highly capable for most computing tasks, possibly minus intensive games
     Responsive keyboard
     Outstanding value, you get a nice computer for not a lot of money
     Really decent battery life: 4.5 to 5 hours average capacity in my experience
     Enough screen real estate to not feel cramped, yet small enough to keep laptop highly portable
     Integrated bluetooth: the ability to pair with a bluetooth mouse without sacrificing a USB port is great; haven't paired the bluetooth with headphones yet, though I wouldn't expect any issues
CONS (I had to be kind of nit-picky to even come up with cons, but here they are):
     Power button could be easier to engage, you have to use a fingernail to slide it on; a push-button would have seemed more logical
     Speakers are adequate, but don't plan on filling your room with music using them 
     Trackpad attracts prints, but I paired this with an HP bluetooth laser mouse, so I rarely use the pad
     No optical drive. This keeps things thin and light, and is easily (and cheaply) solved with a USB slim external optical drive, for those times you need to load something off disc
WISH LIST:
     A backlit keyboard would have made this nearly a perfect laptop, although I guess battery life would have suffered.
Summary: The DM3 is a fantastic marriage of portability and computing capability. You'll feel like you're using a larger laptop due to the nice screen appearance and pleasant keyboard, yet certainly would be right at home at your local Starbucks with this gem on your table or lap, looking hip and trendy!
I'm actually thinking of buying a second DM3 to replace the wife's aging desktop. (Bear in mind, I wouldn't really label this a "desktop replacement", but for what she uses a desktop for, it is.)
Get one of these, you won't be sorry!