ID: B002MUAEX4-R3OUCWP4V1COIJ-AJKOHFCVD85UP
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Panasonic-DMC-GF1-Four-Thirds-Interchangeable-Aspherical
ReviewerID: AJKOHFCVD85UP
ReviewerName: Radio Man "yarns13"
Date: October 23, 2009
Helpful: 11 of 13
Rating: 5.0
Title: A Fantastic camera overall...Almost perfect!
Content:
I am very impressed with this GF1 overall. I also own the Olympus E-P1 so I can't help but compare the two. The build on the GF1 in my opinion is just slightly less as good, or as beautiful? As the E-P1. Opinions will vary on this. I bring up this point mostly because the E-P1 is 100% metal..the GF1 has hard plastic on the top where the hot shoe, shutter is etc. It's no big deal..and even $2,000 SlRs use this sort of plastic but I immediately felt if nothing else, the E-P1 is a bit more luxurious LOOKING. I also owned an LX3 and found IT to look just a tad more SPECIAL than the GF1. HOWEVER to play the other side of the fence the GF1 feels solid as a brick..it seems VERY well made, MADE IN JAPAN vs E-P1 made in China..if anyone cares. Ok so much for looks..that of course is in the eye of the beholder.
 Finally the review of the CAMERA:
I was simply amazed at my first snapshots. I was expecting sort of unrealistic skin tones, Blah greens, blues..as I kept reading how the Oly's colors are so much better especially in jpeg form. WOW WRONG! This Gf-1 takes Stunning pictures Even as jpgs...Realistic color (In my opinion maybe more realistic than the E-P1'S too punchy/contrasty colors outdoors EVEN in jpeg form) If you shoot raw, the GF1 just shines even more.
 As everyone has written the focus speed is AMAZING, fast as can be..but more importantly seems VERY accurate. I could never really get SHARP pics out of my E-P1. The GF1 blows away the E-P1 in my opinion regarding "detail" in pictures. I know maybe the 20mm lens has something to do with this as well.
 I am also impressed with it's dynamic range so far. I am not getting the blown highlights I got with my E-P1 and I am getting less overall shadow vs too bright sun. Another words to my eyes..the GF1 is taking pics much more as your eye sees the scene,..not Overexposed/dark.
In truth I wanted to give the GF1 4.5 stars.. I say that because I find it a bit of a shame that neither the 20mm lens or the body has stabilization. I have read all the reviews how with an aperture of 1.7 you are not going to NEED stabilization in low light...I suppose that is mostly true, BUT the point of these reviews "I feel are to help people make decisions about a product." I find that about 25% of my pictures indoors in semi low light often blur SLIGHTLY because of hand shake..pressing the shutter etc. I know with the zoom you do get the IS but too bad they could not include stabilization with the pancake. Could have been PERFECT! That being said...other than in low light..I am taking the sharpest blur free pictures of my life with this gem.
 One more semi negative I don't see mentioned much I am seeing a bit more chromatic aberration (Purple fringing on high contrast areas..) than I noticed with my E-P1 oddly with the Zukio zoom..a supposed lesser lens. I read software can auto fix this..maybe they are talking about Silky Pix..I have not installed that as I use CS4 Photoshop. I am REALLY picking though..the pictures on a whole look AMAZING mostly, with very accurate color and actually very LITTLE purple fringing..I just wanted to tell all I have noticed. 
 As mentioned in many reviews the E-P1 does look better at higher ISOs..the GF1 gets a bit of yellowy noise about 800 and above in lower light, where the E-P1 looks cleaner to me. BUT with the bright 20mm lens, I have found that the GF1 at 400 iso may have pics that looks as bright as the E-P1 set to roughly 640-800 iso. So you no need USE as high an iso as you need do on the E-P1 ..to my eyes at least.
 To sort of sum up, overall pictures from the GF1 they look ..almost stunning. I have NO pictures that I can say look stunning coming from my E-P1.
 The GF1 feels great to handle..it has an awesome intelligent auto mode..it is much less complicated to figure out than the e-p1, yet equally as powerful or more. The built in flash IS useful and a big plus for the GF1 especially for fill or just to help out a little in semi low light if you like. Battery life seems GREAT much better than the E-P1...screen looks VERY good...movies look great too.
I can't imagine anyone NOT loving the GF1 once you get to know it a bit. I am still learning and already, IT is helping me to take some wonderful pictures.
I had written a review on the E-P1 and gave it 5 stars too..but now OWNING the GF1 I'd probably have to knock the E-P1 down to a 4. Either camera is actually excellent and they border on "GREAT" in my opinion, BUT the GF1 takes AMAZING pictures where in my opinion the E-P1's are more ordinary.though still good too.
If you buy a GF1 I promise you it's IMPOSSIBLE to NOT like it or LOVE it..GREAT camera.I highly recommend it!