ID: B002LF10GA-RJAUSDUK3S2AA-A2JEZYHH7997PL
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Aspire-AS1410-8913-11-6-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2JEZYHH7997PL
ReviewerName: Jack
Date: August 27, 2009
Helpful: 48 of 53
Rating: 5.0
Title: Exceeds My Expectation
Content:
This notebook is one of those instances when you say to yourself, "Wow, it is as good as I expected, and more."
I have refrained from buying a netbook because the low resolution and poor performance prevents me from multi-tab web browsing, not to mention continuous scrolling with Office documents. When I first saw this notebook, I was very excited because it has something the older generation netbooks have lacked:
- Decent resolution (1366x768)
- Decent performance
- Even better battery life (6 hours)
Except, it actually exceeded my expectation.
LCD Screen: Very sharp, and very bright. I am amazed that Acer can squeeze 1366x768 into an 11.6 inch screen, and still keep it so sharp and clear. It is very comfortable to view, and I do not feel any different from viewing my old 14 inch LCD.
Performance: In terms of word processing, web surfing and installing software, it has been as smooth as my old dual-core laptop. This notebook has upgraded the CPU and chipset from the previous generation netbook, which contributes to the performance I am seeing.
Keyboard/touchpad: It's full size keyboard, and it's comfortable to type on. I am still trying to get used to some of the key placement, and the lack of home/end buttons. But it's definitely no worse than my other laptop's keyboard. Acer has also learned the lesson from Aspire 751h, so the touchpad is centered to the touch-typing keyboard, and has two buttons. However, the touchpad edge is difficult to distinguish.
Battery: From what I read, one Acer hour is usually shorter than one Asus hour. This notebook has proven me wrong. I run it on high performance mode, and it still gives me about 6 hours of battery life. Running company VPN and remote desktop seems to reduce it to about 5 hours.
Size: While slightly bigger than the prev-gen netbooks, I don't feel it's bulkier. At 3 lb, it's very light, but can still stand to lose some weight.
Temperature: It doesn't heat up much, you can use it on your lap the whole day.
Other Pros: 250 GB HDD, 2 GB RAM, 1 Gb LAN, 802.11n, webcam, microphone, no-latch lid
Cons:
- Lack of separate Home/End buttons. Unfortunately I think most netbooks have to make this sacrifice.
- Battery charging is slow (I estimate about 4 hours). On the flip side, the charger is small and light.
- Still requires a fan to dissipate heat, albeit quiet.
- Others: lacks bluetooth
As I said, the moment I started using it, all I could say was "Wow". I could not believe Acer could come out with something that outshines Asus (and the rest of the computer industry). For all the laptops I have owned (5), none of them have impressed me as much as this one does.
Update 2009-09-07:
I went on a business trip right after getting this laptop. It's proven to be very mobile. I charge the laptop at night, and take it to work with me in the morning, without the charger. The keyboard feels very natural, and overall work is smooth sailing.
At night I use this laptop to play demo games and watch a few videos (I had the foresight to rip a few ISOs). Most DVDs play great, but there was one that does not play smoothly, so I guess it depends on the DVD encoding.
Overall love this laptop's portability. The battery life ensures that the laptop is always ready when I need to use it.