ID: B002P3KMVC-R7CSDIRMBDZ71-A3B2XH4PVEGCGA
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30A-X5-Light-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A3B2XH4PVEGCGA
ReviewerName: P. Silberg
Date: March 16, 2010
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best small laptop there is - don't wait buy it now!
Content:
There are many folks that have written extensively about this laptop.  I'm just going to make my review simple and to the point.  I ordered it here on Amazon for $679 w/shipping.  I see they are now selling it for $[...] - that's no shipping cost and no tax, you will not beat this deal.  I also purchased the Square Trade warranty to cover issues for 3 years.  There's nothing more frustrating than having a display go bad on you after a year or two, so I think it's worth purchasing the extended warranty.
The laptop is everything you are going to want, it's fast, it's sleek, it comes only with a few "bloatware" products such as Trend Micro AV (uninstall and install Microsoft Security Essentials [free]), and a trial version of MS Home Office (your choice what to do with this one), and that's about it.  
Some folks complain about the trackpad.  It's quite sensitive and the double-finger scroll is too fast, but these features can be adjusted so it works pretty good.  The display is great, clear and vibrant, sound is quite good but don't expect low bass tones, the speakers are too small, but there's good volume.
The drive is partitioned into C: and D: when it comes, and using Windows 7 is not that difficult.  I am a Windows 7 neophyte having used XP for years.  I like Windows 7 - once you get used to how the menu displays, and you can adjust some of the menu features to suit your needs.  The "find program" feature just above the start button helps you find where functions/programs are that are not readily apparent when you first start.  Overall the Windows 7 experience for me has been fine, different, but better.  I like it.
I also purchased Acronis True Image so I could create drive backups - this is a program I've been using for years and it is the best imaging software available so you have peace of mind regarding your system crashing.  You can set up another boot partition and write a drive image directly to the internal drive, another image to the D: partition, and it can be copied to USB external drive or DVDs.   Check Acronis out, it's great.
Overall I am 100% satisfied with the laptop, it's features, speed, looks, ease of use, etc.  It's quiet, cool, and has no flaws.  By the way, don't believe the 12-hour battery life advertising.  If you are running the laptop at full display (default), and you run on the batteries, the indicator says about 6 hours.  I expect if you dim the laptop some that time lengthens.  Either way it's plenty of time to run on batteries, and it charges back up pretty fast.  There's a very good review on [...], besides the one here on Amazon.
I have absolutely no regrets on this purchase, and I read tons of reviews, and compared small profile laptops for at least two months before buying the Asus UL30A-X5.  If I needed another small laptop, I'd buy another.
One last thing, as you know from considering this laptop, the screen is small when compared to a standard 15" laptop, so not all web pages display in full view so you have to scroll down a little more, so keep this in mind if you buy this item.  The fact that it is so light, portable, user-friendly, and fast, clear, bright, quiet and a smooth piece of electronic engineering overweighed this for me.
Take out your credit card and buy the Asus if you are hesitating, you won't be sorry.