ID: B002XZLURC-RCYX016VHB3FR-AV9HUDE88L4I7
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30Vt-X1-Light-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: AV9HUDE88L4I7
ReviewerName: arby4 "arby"
Date: March 10, 2010
Helpful: 0 of 8
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good thin notebook
Content:
I have been using this notebook for some weeks now and I have found it to be a great replacement for my netbook. In the past I would carry around 15-17inch notebooks then about one and half years ago I got a 9 inch netbook to use when I wanted something that was light, smaller and easy to use. Then after using the netbook for about 6 months I tried to use it as my main PC. There were only two issues that I found that were bothersome was the speed of the CPU and screen resolution. With the ASUS UL30Vt I have found one that is light, fast, and has a better screen resolution. The ability to switch between using the Intel graphics and the NVIDIA graphics was a plus. I have yet to find a need to switch the notebook to Turbo mode because I am not a gamer (I have better things to do with my life, despite my son being a big gamer). I have found that I can get more than a full day's usage without needing to be connected to a power source; that equates to about 8+ hours. I would have be surfing the web and doing some heavy computing. The full size key board did take a day to get use to after being on the netbook's small key board. Unlike others, I have not really found the one button for the mouse to be much of an issue. Having the built-in Bluetooth was a big plus along with being able to upgrade the RAM to 8G (if I ever decide to). I would have given this product a higher rating if it had been an 11.3 inch because that is what I really wanted for my replacement of the netbook. I have yet to fly with this notebook but I expect it to preform well there (we'll see when the guy in the seat in front of me leans all the way back). I am looking for a bag to carry this notebook in and I have not find the prefect one yet, so i'll use my old one from the 15 inch days for now.