ID: B002P8M8HS-R37U0CNGRZNAUQ-A3VWGTIJ2UIXRL
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-L505-S5993-TruBrite-15-6-Inch
ReviewerID: A3VWGTIJ2UIXRL
ReviewerName: R. Curtis "Goped+BART=Heaven"
Date: January 31, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: the best computer ive owned so far.....
Content:
dont believe the hype, an inexperianced user will always have the same typical problems that you will see in these various reviews.
the touch pad is awesome the smartest design i have seen to date, its different than the aveage touchpad, super responsive and very similar feel to using a touch screen, the tap function is awesome as well.
no conectivity problems here as all of my equipment is up to date wireless heaven over here.
connecting my printer was actually fun, it was all done wirelessly with no questions to answer or options to choose. it found my printer installed the proper drivers and that was it!
i had the biggest geeks on this planet pick out a lap top for me, after very little discussion we all decided on this exact machine.
i really grown to hate windows with my past vaio/xp combo....yuck! i was ready to give apple a try but the price shyed me away (as it should). after i got this machine paired up with windows 7 my world was restored....i am once again in love with windows!
i really couldnt stand norton security either with all the non stop questions and such....not with this new version, after how i seen the trial version interact i am now the biggest fan of the toshiba/windows7/norton combo.....there is no way i would have it any other way, and just so you know there is no one pickier than me.....on everything.
the screen is so brite and tru to real life, videos stream flawlessly, no stupid latch to claw open, full number keypad, i think all lap top speakers are small and tiny sounding you've probley already got portable speakers....use them if you need to...(i dont need to)!
i think windows 7 is the biggest hero here though....its so amazing!  its hard to go into it, it would be like ruining a movie for you.... 
please disregard any negative reviews you read on this machine....that is just inexperianced users that are used to the same ol same.....this machine is different buy one and enjoy it!
i noticed the price creeping back up every day after i got mine thats the sign of a killer great product that is very popular indeed!
i used my amazon store card which is giving me 6 months same as cash....what are you waiting for?
p.s. go for the free shipping, i had mine in 2 days! and buy it from amazon not one of thier retailers.