ID: B002L6HDPG-R3TP2U819KMAW0-A15QC96SQW4ZUM
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Black-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A15QC96SQW4ZUM
ReviewerName: R. Kaiser "Kize"
Date: April 14, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 8
Rating: 1.0
Title: really disappointed
Content:
i'm shocked at all the good reviews for the ipod nano 5th generation. this thing is a clunk of junk. i spend hours and hours burning all my CD's into itunes (which in itself takes forever to install and uninstall), only to find that it won't sync them to the ipod. which means, this thing is worthless. sure, it will sync the first few songs. but then my computer (or itunes) freezes. then i had to turn the computer off, power it back on, go thru the "windows did not shut down properly" thing, wait for the reboot process, wait for itunes to start, wait some more, attempt to re-sync, sync thru 219 of 540 songs, then FREEZE. then...start the whole process over again.
i googled the issue, read thru numerous irrate posts about these sort of issues, followed apple's diagnosis sequence, which involved meticulously uninstalling itunes, quicktime, blah blah blah...in a SPECIFIC ORDER...redownloaded itunes (waiting.....), reinstalled itunes, finally started itunes to sync, began syncing, got thru 200+ songs and FREEZE. no response from the computer. this is a brand new HP laptop i have here. a powerhouse with no problems to date, except for the wonderfully rated ipod nano.
have i painted a clear enough picture for all you? if you want to spend $150+ on an mp3 just so you can spend hours and hours trying to make it work, be my guest. if you are smart, you will look elswhere. i think i will be buying a zune. but not before i google issues it may have first. what a tremendous waste of time this nano is. to think i coulda done so many other things with that time. to say the least...i'm really disappointed. but i couldn't be happier with amazon's return policy and procedure. they shed some glee on an otherwise maddening situation.