ID: B002L6HDSI-R2DE3CC7NN3SIK-A2ECCAFJWF2ZJW
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A2ECCAFJWF2ZJW
ReviewerName: Daniel Acosta
Date: January 30, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Nice New Features
Content:
The 5th Generation iPod nano was everything I expected, It's a great mp3 player with everything iPod users are used to, plus it includes a nice set of new features not included in the previous generation keeping the same form factor. Internal speakers, FM Radio, a Video camera and a pedometer.
FM Radio works great, the Live Pause feature works awesome. It lets you pause/rewind live audio streams for up to 15 minutes and is very intuitive. I haven't had a chance to try the tagging feature as it is not supported in my country, I believe it uses a special protocol to capture song data directly from the broadcaster instead of using the audio itself like Shazam, which would be nice but it'll add to the complexity and reliability of the whole process as the nano isn't online and needs iTunes to process the samples.
The video camera is acceptable, quality is a bit better than the average cell phone, however color balance is a bit weird and textures seem a bit washed out. But don't get me wrong, It's still a great camera for quick snapshots, youtube vlogs and stuff like that. The video effects have really good quality and the iPod's processor renders them effortlessly which seems amazing.
The internal speaker can be easily beat by any cheap cellphone in both sound quality and loudness, however it's acceptable considering how thin and small the device is but I don't find it very useful except for showing a short video to someone without having to connect the headphones.
Overall the iPod makes a nice purchase, price is good and the extras are nice but nothing truly indispensable. If you have a 4th generation nano you don't really need to get one of these, but if you need a new iPod this is a good choice at a very low price.