ID: B002MUAEX4-R1TS93E7CRFET6-A2UTQS6NY64JFR
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Panasonic-DMC-GF1-Four-Thirds-Interchangeable-Aspherical
ReviewerID: A2UTQS6NY64JFR
ReviewerName: T. Ruggles "Leica geek"
Date: March 3, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: Solid camera and lens, confusing user manual, poor RAW editor
Content:
The Lumix GF1-C (with 20mm lens) is well-made and offers an abundance of features that might be more accessible were it not for its poorly designed user manual and bundled RAW editor.  Other reviewers have noted the utility and sharpness of the Panasonic 20mm lens' and the camera's ability -- with this lens -- to focus quickly and accurately even in poor lighting conditions.  Still others have complained about the user manual, which is thorough but poorly designed (every feature has at least two reference points in the manual, and you have to read both to understand how to use or apply the feature correctly).  And the bundled RAW editor has drawn many complaints for its obtuse user interface and novel use of the English language.   All of this, in my experience, is true.
The GF1 may not have the largest sensor, it certainly lacks a big, bright viewfinder, its lenses may exhibit a fairly shallow depth of field and its range of optional lenses may be limited (and overpriced, at least for the moment), but overall, wow.  
The RAW editor issue can be overcome at zero cost by downloading the latest version of Picassa, which accepts RAW2 images.  The rear view screen isn't as convenient as a viewfinder for composing shots, but it is big enough and bright enough to be used in almost any environment and, after all, you can't have everything.  The manual's shortcomings are due, in large part, to the fact that there are so many features to consider -- if you stick to the essentials, the things you'll use over and over again, and become familiar with those before taking on the more exotic features, you'll do fine.  [Frankly, I find many features to be just plain gimmicky -- not knowing how to invoke the "Baby" setting isn't likely to diminish my quality of life anytime soon.  Old age is taking care of that.]
The 20mm lens is a gem.  I've never owned a camera that had a "normal" (50mm 35mm-format equivalent) lens before.  I use 35, 90 and 135mm lenses with my old Leica and Contax rangefinders and I really thought I'd be more comfortable using the GF1-K kit's variable zoom.  But I bought the GF1-C on the basis of its reviews in Amazon and elsewhere -- and I'm glad I did.  The 20mm lens is a fast "wide normal" lens in a relatively flat "pancake" form factor (that also allows fairly close macro compositions -- I haven't tried to measure how close one can get before reaching the close-up focus boundary, but it's pretty close.
I bought a Voigtlander Leica M lens adapter and am very pleased with it.  Lenses mounted with a Micro 4/3 adapter operate at double their nominal (35mm camera format) value -- so, for example, my 35mm Leica Summilux lens becomes a 70mm equivalent manual lens on the Lumix.  The new v1.2 firmware enables the manual focus assist feature to operate with adapted, manual-focus lenses, and I was surprised at how well this works in practice.  Set the camera in the the "No Lens" mode, select Aperture priority, pick an f/stop on the lens, and press the function selector wheel at the back upper right side of the camera and, voila, an enlarged image appears on the rear view screen and you focus using the lens' focus ring.  Roll the scroll button to the right and the image magnification increases again.  I'm not sure how much magnification is offered by this feature, but it appears to be fairly robust -- say on the order of 4X at each of the two magnification stops.
The SilkPix software was designed for use by someone who is already familiar with complex, RAW-oriented image editors.  The capabilities offered by Picassa are more than enough for me.  I'd never used a camera that captured RAW mode images before, so I opted to set the Lumix to capture both a RAW and JPEG (Fine) image simultaneously.  It's interesting to see them side-by-side in Picassa; one's initial impression is that the JPEG image is much brighter and more punchy.  The RAW image looks dull and dark by comparison.  I nearly changed the image capture feature to JPEG-only until I noticed how much image detail was lost in the JPEG version.  If you play around a bit with RAW images in Picassa you'll see what I mean.  Start by increasing the fill light.  Also, notice that if you've selected "Dynamic" or some other image editing feature in the GF1, these changes will not be carried out on the RAW image presented by Picassa (maybe these camera settings appear in the SilkyPix editor, but I know for sure that they do not in Picassa).  Note also that if you are a Mac user, neither Aperture v2 or the new v3 will support RAW2 image formats.  [Thanks Steve.]
If you own older manual focus Leica M lenses, think of the GF1 as a workingman's M9 at about 20% the cost -- value-wise, there's no comparison between the two and, believe me, I'm a big Leica fan (owned them for 35 years now).  Get a big, fast SD card, especially if you capture RAW or RAW+JPEG, and absolutely if you intend to bracket RAW images.  Take a look at a product called Dynamic Photo HDR (you'll need a tripod to take full advantage of this product).  Buy a camera bag (Panasonic doesn't include one in the package -- and at the price they're charging for this camera, shame on them).  You'll sooner or later want a telezoom lens -- but prices are going down, and the 20mm is a better starter lens -- and a better lens overall -- than the one offered in the GF1-K kit.  I can't recommend the optional electronic viewfinder because I've never used it, but I'd hesitate to buy a $200 accessory that isn't, strictly speaking, necessary for anyone to get a lot out of this camera.  The battery life is phenomenal, and I wouldn't invest in a a spare battery unless you are very sure you'll capture more than 350 images/day -- you can always buy one later if it turns out you really need it.