ID: B002QWP1CM-R3BCDQB3KQG5GP-A1MTMJ7YIRF3PA
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Portable-Quartz-Infrared-Space-Heater
ReviewerID: A1MTMJ7YIRF3PA
ReviewerName: S. Carter
Date: December 22, 2009
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good space heater, love it
Content:
I bought this from eBay for around $190. I have two other electric space heaters so comparison was an easy task. I bought it for our high ceiling bedroom which is about 300 sf. Ceramic heater was useless because hot air would rise up. Then I bought a Holmes Infrared Quartz Heater from Wal-Mart , this was a lot better than the ceramic heater but the fan was really noisy and there was no way to turn it off. Holmes Quartz Heater gives you SUN Like heat and the heat does not rise up like ceramic heaters.  Anyways it was way too noisy, You can't have a restful sleep with that thing. Still I thought there was something right with the infrared heaters. Then I looked into Edenpure and other more expensive infrared heaters. They looked promising now that I was already sold on the idea of infrared heating but they were really expensive. Then I looked at eBay and found Dr Heater. Customer Feedback was pretty good so I decided to give it a shot. It arrived in 5 days and I first tried it in our living room which is about 700 sf when kitchen included. Dr Heater was OK, I was not too impressed but still felt it was doing something different. It did its magic when I moved it to our bedroom. In about 10 minutes our bedroom was already warm , and outside temp was 35-40 F. It was set on Auto but later that night I set it to LOW because it was getting really hot and yet thermostat kept showing 66F degrees and never shut off because I'd set it to 70. SO I am not sure if the thermostat was defective or what, it sure felt more than 66 F. Anyways when I set it at LOW it was REALLY comfortable and most importantly QUITE. That's the best thing about this heater, it is quite and you can place it in your bedroom. No other heater could heat our bedroom on LOW because of high ceilings. Dr Heater did it. Overall I give it 4 stars, I was going to give 5 but I still cannot figure out if the thermostat is good or not so there you have 4 and, it is an honest review not like the first review that is obviously written by one of the Dr Heater employees :)