ID: B002EVOVPI-R24SLVQC38V3DY-AA5X6501JTF6I
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Capresso-464-05-CoffeeTeam-Digital-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: AA5X6501JTF6I
ReviewerName: JoeSchmoe
Date: January 19, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Fresh and Good Coffee, Easy to Use and Clean
Content:
INTRO.  My wife and I like good coffee, but are novices at making it.  We used to get our fix from Duncan Donuts or McDonalds (Starbucks is not worth the price premium for our tastes).  Not anymore.
With this machine, we've learned to make coffee to our liking at home.  Not only have we saved time and money in the morning, but we no longer have to roll the dice on freshness and quality every day.  As a side benefit, our home smells wonderful after coffee-making.
EASE OF USE.  It's easy to use.  Just (1) fill the grinder with beans and set how finely you'd like them ground, (2) fill the maker with the amount of water you want, (3) set the corresponding number of cups you'd like to grind, (4) tweak your preference for light, medium, or dark, and (5) push start.  Programming to make coffee at a certain time of day is also a breeze.  It may take you a few tries (as it did us) to figure out how to tweak the preferences to match your tastes, but after that, it's like flying on auto-pilot.
EASE OF CLEANING.  It's also easy to clean.  Rinse out the pot and filter basket with a little bit of soap.  If you use the included gold-tone filter, you'll need to rinse that out as well.  We prefer the ease of a paper filter.  Besides, the gold-tone one seems to let through just enough fine coffee grinds to be noticeable at the bottom of a cup.  Hopefully, the savings in water makes up for the wasted paper.
DESIGN.  The off-center grinder prevents steam from the coffee maker from infiltrating the grinding chamber.  Some other grind-and-brew machines have the grinder directly above the coffee-making elements, where (according to reviewers) condensation could make them a chore to clean.  Not here.
NOISE.  It's not as loud as we expected--or feared--from some reviews.  Like the noise from a garbage disposal, you get used to it.  If you put the coffee-maker in the kitchen rather than next to your bed, the noise from grinding should not be an issue after a week or so.
CONCLUSION.  We're not coffee connoisseurs by any stretch, but we do know good (and bad) coffee when we taste it.  This machine lets us make reliably good coffee from the convenience of home.  It's easy to use and clean.  We've now had it for three months, and it still works as well as the first day.  Worth the money.