ID: B002LEXA64-RMKLAE4ZG15YZ-AQWRYWQG510EM
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Aspire-AS1410-8414-11-6-Inch-Sapphire
ReviewerID: AQWRYWQG510EM
ReviewerName: Sambath Pech "mobius5"
Date: January 8, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Best Value Ever!
Content:
Less than 5 months ago, I bought the Acer 11.6" Aspire One netbook with the Atom processor for the same price as this netbook. And this one has better specs: a Core2 Solo processor that's 5x faster than the Atom Z520, twice the RAM at 2GB, and bigger hard drive.  When I saw the price on this, I had to purchase it because my Aspire One netbook was too slow. Even surfing the internet, the Atom processor had trouble when I had more than 4 tabs opened in IE or Mozilla....such as choppiness when scrolling down the pages.  This is a HUGE upgrade over the Atom. It's snappier and performs just like any other full-fledged laptop...minus the DVD drive, bulkiness, and weight. 
I was a little worried about the blue color because it looked like a brighter blue in the pictures. I wanted the black, but it was ~$30 more on every website I visited. But I'm very happy when I first took it out of the box. It's a darker navyish blue. I'm using this laptop (yes, Acer calls this a laptop) at the moment in a darker lamp-lighted room, and it actually looks black from 3 feet away. The pictures don't do justice. It looks better in person. I wasn't worried about the build quality because my Aspire One had high-quality materials. This laptop doesn't bend or creak in any way. Very sturdy and rigid....feels like something that would cost atleast $700.  
The only con I have about this laptop is the fan. I can hear it running if I put my ear about 1 feet away. With my Atom-powered netbook, I can't hear anything at all - I only know it's running because I can feel warm air coming out of the vents. The Aspire One and this laptop has the exact same keyboard, but a different trackpad. The Aspire One has a better trackpad because it has a defined border for the trackpad. This laptop, it just blends in with the palm rest. Honestly, it's not really a big deal unless you like to use the side-scroll function on the trackpad. This one has a better trackpad button than the Aspire One because the L and R buttons are separate instead of one single button like the Aspire One. The separate buttons makes it a lot easier to click. Battery life is the same for both 6-cell batteries at 5.5 hours...which is amazing considering this laptop has a processor that's 5x more powerful than the netbook iteration.