ID: B002MSJFKO-R12F73ZBBHYN0Z-A3EM243NDJ4DF3
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Bosch-TAS6515UC-Single-Serve-Twilight-Titanium
ReviewerID: A3EM243NDJ4DF3
ReviewerName: T Rose "T Rose"
Date: October 19, 2009
Helpful: 31 of 33
Rating: 4.0
Title: Amazing. Great Keurig rival. See note about cleaning.
Content:
I've been a Keurig fan for years and I was hesitant to try the Tassimo mainly because I wasn't familiar with the brand.  I received the Tassimo today and I am more than pleased with it.  
Pros:
Great flavor! Really, really great flavor. As I said, I've been in love with many of Keurig's K-cups for years and I didn't think anything could top it but the Tassimo is just as good, maybe even better. The flavor is very strong but if you like it milder you can adapt it to suit your taste.
You can brew espresso, lattes or cappuccino. The latte and cappuccinos are brewed in a two step process-the packages come with an equal amount of espresso and latte (or cappuccino) milk mix. You brew the espresso disc first, then insert the milk mix disc to finish the drink. (however see note below about cleaning)
It comes with an adjustable cup stand. You can remove it for very tall mugs or adjust to the highest height to accommodate espresso cups. (Eliminates splashing on the side of the brewer-the coffee seems to come out at high pressure at the end of the brew cycle).
Although it is programmed to read barcodes to add the precise amount of water, you can customize your brew by reducing the amount of water added, or add extra water to the cup at the end of the cycle for a milder taste. 
Set up is easy. 
It comes with a "cleaning disc" that stores in the back of the machine. The machine reads a barcode on every disc to see how much water to use. When it reads the cleaning disc code it prompts you to "brew" 4 times. Simply follow the instructions on the LCD screen.
The water reservoir is very large and easy to fill. There is a carrying handle and the top comes off completely.
The display is pretty impressive if you like LCD displays, written, flashing instructions and multi colored lights.  It's a little over the top and unnecessary but I have to admit it impressed me.
Cons:
The discs aren't as easy to come by as K-cups. My local store carries about 15 K-cup varieties and not one T-disc.  While I'm sure I'll be purchasing most of the discs online, I like to have the option of running into town to pick them up if I run out.  Not only that but I haven't found any good deals on the T-discs (amazon and many other sites often have K-cups at significantly discounted prices). So far no such luck with Tassimo. Although you can get 2 free packages for registering your machine and even more free items if you sign up for their delivery service.
According to the manual, the water filter should be replaced every 8 weeks.  That adds up over time.
***BIG CONSIDERATION FOR LATTE/CAPPUCCINO DRINKERS*** 
The manual suggests that after each milk based drink is dispensed you clean the piercing unit and do the cleaning disc process. 
I sincerely hope that's just an overly cautious suggestion to prevent the taste from showing up in the next drink. If the entire process really has to be done every time (to prevent milk from sitting and spoiling in the unit or something) then this clearly isn't a quick and easy solution when you want a latte.  So if you're looking to buy this to make one latte, cappuccino or hot chocolate a day, I'd strongly suggest calling customer service and getting more information on this "Important Note". I wouldn't want to spend 15 minutes going through the "clean disk" cycle and take apart the piercing unit (3 pieces) just for one drink. When I make a milky drink I make a regular coffee right after it to flush out the milk. I hope that's good enough!
So bottom line, Keurig vs. Tassimo:
I feel Keurig has lower prices and availability going for it: K-cups are everywhere and come in hundreds of varieties.
Tassimo offers more functionality (specifically cappuccinos and lattes) and possibly a higher end taste.  I like being able to offer guests an espresso, cappuccino or latte without having to have extra machines taking up room in the kitchen.