ID: B00267S7UK-R1N97TEA873TX4-A16OLGBQYDV77F
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D5000-2-7-inch-Vari-angle-Body
ReviewerID: A16OLGBQYDV77F
ReviewerName: Clay Olmstead
Date: January 13, 2010
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Very nice
Content:
I've had my D5000 for four months. I'm upgrading from film SLRs and compact digitals. This is a whole new world. I've shot a few thousand pictures now. It's taken me a little time to get used to all the features and settings and to get them where I want them. After reading [...] and [...], I went with the Neutral color setting, with sharpness bumped up two notches. The sharpness setting is a little hard to find; I don't know how long it would have taken me to find it and experiment with it if not for Ken Rockwell's site. 
By the way, the last time I looked at Ken Rockwell's site, he was still not recommending the D5000 because the price difference wasn't great enough between that and the D90. The difference is over $300 now; that's enough for me, but maybe not for everybody. 
There's only thing I haven't figured out how to make work well: the autofocus. I've missed several shots because the autofocus freaked out and wouldn't zero in on the subject, even though it didn't seem like any of the "hard to fucus" scenarios called out in the manual. I finally gave up and shut the darn thing off. I'm all about manual focus now, just like the old days. I don't understand why the compact digitals I've owned never had an issue with autofocus, but this one, which should be the latest technology, is lackluster. Even worse is autofocus in live mode. There's no way to predict how long it will take to focus, so you'd better be prepared - if you don't see a shot coming and the focus conditions are at all difficult, there's a good chance you'll miss it. 
This isn't a point and shoot, although it does have that mode, so I can hand the camera to my wife or son and they can snap away. It's more like a sports car that you have to tweak, tune beg and cajole into doing its best. That's what I wanted, was to be totally involved in taking pictures, and have it be worth the effort. I'm not disappointed.