ID: B00267S7TQ-R29VKIYH20LFOJ-API15JF59ZX6J
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D5000-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G-Vari-angle
ReviewerID: API15JF59ZX6J
ReviewerName: T. Arceneaux "jazz guitar player"
Date: March 10, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: Used to be a 35mm SLR buff and tired of "point and shoot" cameras
Content:
I used to be a semi-pro 35mm photographer and loved choosing aperture (for selecting depth of field) or shutter speed (for stop action or capturing motion), but when the digital cameras came out, I put away the 35mm and started purchasing point-and-shoot digital cameras.  They were great under existing light conditions, but other than that, they sucked.  Didn't have good flash capability, and settings were chosen for you.  Sometimes photos came out blurry, too dark, too light, or just plain ol' crappy.
Finally, a DSLR came out with a reasonable price tag (under $700) and it was a name I trusted..... NIKON.  I was going to purchase the D-3000, but finally put up the extra hundred bucks or so, and purchased the upgrade D5000.  Man is it a nice camera.
Negatives first:  The camera seems to be made of plastic and I'm afraid after a while, it will become damaged.  The lens' flanges are plastic and I am extremely careful when removing or putting on lenses.  If you drop it, I think you can kiss it good-bye.  WEAR THE STRAP AT ALL TIMES.
Positives:  READ, READ, READ the manual over and over again.  I've had this camera since early December 2009 (its now November 11, 2010) and I started reading the manual before the camera was delivered.  I still pick up the manual every now and then and read up on features that I don't use very often.  Its a complex little unit, but that's half the fun.  You can do so much with this camera.  Set it for Aperture priority and adjust F-stops.  Set it for shutter priority and adjust the speed.  Set it on Program and point and shoot, or set it on Auto and pick a dozen pre-set settings for specific types of photos.  It is fantastic.
I also like the tilt out view screen.  Very handy.  And reviewing images and deleting them is a snap.
It takes fantastic pictures with rich color and clear definition.  I really like it.