ID: B002MZYZHU-R3RF74ZZ711Q1G-A2V5R832QCSOMX
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Breville-BKC700XL-Single-Serve-Coffeemaker-Iced-Beverage
ReviewerID: A2V5R832QCSOMX
ReviewerName: Leanne
Date: November 29, 2009
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Silent and makes excellent coffee!
Content:
This is the third pod/K-Cup system my husband and I have had, and, while being the most expensive, it is also definitely the best!  
In the past, we've had a Senseo pod model and also a Keurig K-Cup model.  We haven't used these as our primary coffee machines at home, but have rather used them in our offices at work so as to have tasty, convenient coffee at the ready.
The best thing about this Breville model is that it makes a good, strong cup of coffee.  Is it as tasty as the coffee that the Jura Capresso machine we have at home is?  No, but that isn't what we got this for.  In my experience, coffee from a K-Cup machine doesn't quite equal coffee from an automated machine, but if you're looking for coffee with minimal clean-up and mess, this Breville is great.  Once you're done making your coffee, all you have to do is toss the used pod in the trash; there are no messy grounds to contend with.
Other additional features of this machine are its versatility and ease of use.  It has an iced coffee feature that is great, and has five different brew strengths you can choose from.  The 60-ounce water reservoir is also a nice feature if you are using this at the workplace and don't have easy access to water.  You can also adjust the temperature of your coffee, which is another nice feature since I tend to like my coffee a bit warmer than most people do. 
Additionally, the Breville machine is extremely quiet -- so much so that I barely even notice when my husband is making coffee with it.  
Another reviewer commented on the flashing lights on this machine that hit a child at eye level, but we haven't noticed this to be a problem at all.  
One negative:  the product description states that this should have included 18 sample K-cups in the package, and my package did not, which may have been because I got this through the Vine program.  If you're ordering one of these, I'd suggest also ordering some K-Cups to go along with it so you have them ready to go when the machine arrives.
Overall, it definitely costs more than other K-Cup systems out there, but if you're looking for a high quality cup of coffee and like the added features of this product, it's a great little machine!