ID: B0029XPSAS-R1HAX7HRK2M4CW-A1KY3NY2EY83FO
Category: AirConditioners
Product: NewAir-AC-10000E-Conditioner-AutoEvaporative-Technology
ReviewerID: A1KY3NY2EY83FO
ReviewerName: FD
Date: August 1, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Perfect for my needs
Content:
I bought this for my elderly mother because she has electronic gear set up in her bedroom and being on the 2nd floor it would get too hot in there for her safety in my opinion.
First of all, it is easy to install. I was worried about the exhaust hose through the window because that seemed complicated and way above my head. I had my brother come over and install it even though he assured me even I could do it :P It took him 20 minutes total. And MOST of that time was setting up the basics like where she wanted it and the direction it faced etc. The exhaust hose was trivial and it fit in her window just fine even though she has a sliding window left to right not up and down. It takes up a small space in the window and from the outside I didn't even see it. 
It was heavy for me, but probably fine for most people. 
It has a thermometer on the front so it tells you what temperature it is at when you start it and continues to update you as it goes down. It was 95 when she turned it on and within an hour it was down to 83. So basically it cooled her room by 12 degrees. That may seem small but also keep in mind it is constantly blowing cold air so she could point it at herself and it was instant relief the entire time. It has a remote too so she could adjust it from her bed.
I can't remember the wattage of it so check that. It is something like 1200 watts? Our only problem was that most fuses can only handle a total of 2000 watts.(I am typing this from what I was told so forgive me if my numbers are not 100% accurate) It was on the same circuit breaker as my bathroom and my hair dryer is 1200 watts so when I used it it blew a fuse. No big deal once I moved my hair dryer to another outlet.
IMO 12 degrees is worth it, especially since you might even get better results of you don't have all of the electronics she has.
This was also a great price compared to the other models I looked at which got bad reviews.