ID: B002QG0RRC-R2PTTYXDSLSORO-A3HXAX51R50ZMT
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Capresso-465-05-CoffeeTeam-Digital-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A3HXAX51R50ZMT
ReviewerName: Gary Borad
Date: February 13, 2010
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: Simply Amazing!
Content:
I can't say enough about this machine.  I bought this baby about 3 weeks ago and I could not be happier.  Let me start by simply saying this combination grinder/brewer makes the BEST COFFEE I've ever tasted out of a home machine.  And, after all, isn't that the most important thing?  There are multiple user available tool to change the coarsness of the grind, the amount of grounds that enter the filter, and the "aroma" of the overall process.  If you like strong coffee the 10 setting, even with a full pot, is as strong as any cup of Starbucks I've ever had.  If you like "weaker coffee" you can can simply reduce the amount of beans you use.   So, for coffee taste and flexibility/adjustability this machine gets an A+
Probably the next most important thing is the appearance.  We looked at the Coffeeteam Therm - I really liked the idea of the grinding process being separated from the brewing process.  That seemed important to avoid the problem the Cuisinart's have where the brewing process seems to gum up the grinding area (more on this in a bit).  The problem with the Coffeeteam therm is it's not such a good looking machine.  I also thought there was a high likelihood of having to clean up grounds off the counter every morning.  Anyway, this machine is very sharp looking.  Some folks have complained that it puts out a lot of steam and to be sure there is steam (as with any coffee maker).  We don't have ours under a cabinet so it's no problem.  But even if you are going to put this under cabinet again, I'm not sure it puts out that much more steam than any other coffee maker...maybe a little.  So, looks, at least in our kitchen - solid A!
Clean up is important.  This coffee maker comes with the gold tone filter so if you like you don't have to use a paper filter.  We still do because it speeds cleanup.   After each use (or before the next) just open the filter door, dump the paper filter and grounds, lightly wash the gold tone filter and thermal carafe and you're ready to start a new brew.  I think once every other week it's probably important to wash the filter holder etc.  I also wipe down the surfaces after starting each new pot.  Bottom line - VERY EASY to clean.   I give it an A.
Over all build quality.  Yes, for $200+ one might expect more stainless steel but this baby is a well built solid, compact machine.  I have no issues with the overall build - A solid B
Other points:  
Grinder Noise:  Some have complained about the noise the grinder made.  Heck, I was prepared for the worst when I bought it.  I used to have a blade grinder that seemed very loud so my expectations were fairly low.  Still, I'd live through 30-45 seconds of grinding for a nice cup of joe in the morning.  Well, to my surprise this grinder made A LOT LESS NOISE than my blade grinder.  In fact I don't even hear it in the morning.  Now, our bedroom is upstairs so it is a bit away from the machine but when I used the blade grinder everyone in the house would be up.  This machine - you can barely hear it unless your either in the kitchen or in an adjacent room with the radio or TV off.
Coffee In Transit:  Some have mentioned there are "beans in transit to the grinder" that hinder ability to go from caffinated to de-caf.  The simple answer to this is to grind what's in transit into an empty filter, put in your de-caf and off you go.  Yes, this means holding some already ground beans aside for future use but I'm not sure other machines have any answer to that one.
Coffee Ground in Transit:  Yes, there is some coffee already ground that doesn't make into the filter that rests in the channel between the grinder and the filter basket.  This is a nominal amount and will be used for your next pot- most likely the next day.  I'm not sure this changes the flavor - it's such a small amount.
Gumming Up: This is a problem with the Cuisinart so I was a bit fearful with this machine because the grind process is above and a bit set back from the brewing process.  However the automatic seal device that closes off the channel between the brew and grind does a fantastic job.  This baby doesn't have any issues with gumming up - AT ALL.
Top of Bean Reservoir popping off:  Well, all I can say it, not on mine.  Not once.  Never seen it.
Internal Water Line View:  Yes, there is not externally exposed view for the water reservoir.  Uh, I don't see this as a big deal.  When you open the bin there is one inside.  Quite functional.  No issue there.
SUGGESTED IMPROVEMENTS:
The bean reservoir could be larger.  I've heard there's an attachment for that.  It holds about 3 days (Full Pots) of coffee.
The water reservoir lid needs to be reviewed a little.  It's functional but a bit hard to open and close.  Probably would suggest a different material.
Anyway, LOVE THIS MACHINE.  JUST LOVE IT!