ID: B002ZV6ZWO-R8YB6SZZ8DBV3-AWIRH3Z6IGF9T
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-S2180-Titan-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: AWIRH3Z6IGF9T
ReviewerName: Ruth F. "New Mom"
Date: March 12, 2010
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Wish I'd heard of Miele earlier....
Content:
I have owned my share of vacuums over the years.  And like strollers, I kept trying to find the "one" that would be all I needed.  I think I finally found it!  About a month ago, I decided to put my Eureka Boss out to pasture and begin the search for a new vacuum.  My FIL had a new Dyson vacuum that he seemed to like, so I started my research there.  Boy, am I glad other reviewers recommended in their reviews to check out the Miele vacuums instead!  
I live in a four story Colonial (basement is "unfinished", but we have rugs down where the washing machine is) and our walk-up attic was just refinished with wall-to-wall carpeting.  On the other two "main" floors, it's mostly hardwood/tile and area rugs.  So, we have many different floor surfaces requiring different maintenance needs!  The more I researched Miele, the more I knew a canister vacuum was for me.  I couldn't fathom trying to carry a heavy upright up and down all the different levels in my house.  I found a local appliance store that sold Mieles and went to look at them myself.  We bought one soon after through Amazon.
Here's what I like most about the Miele:
1.  The retractable cord.  It's a pet-peeve of mine that more appliances don't have this feature!  And although the cord isn't super long, it's enough to do a room (at least in my house) and then unplug it to do another room.
2.  The quietness.  I just had a second baby and was worried about how I was going to keep the house clean with coordinating TWO nap and sleep schedules.  The Titan (and I'm sure most other Mieles) resolve this issue by making it very quiet to use.  I even used it in the room with my sleeping newborn and it didn't wake him!
3.  The lightness.  I can easily move this vacuum up and down the stairs with one hand.  Don't know exactly what it weighs, but it's pretty light.
4.  The different brushes and "heads" that attach to the hose.  My Eureka had some of them, but they were such a pain to use.  Switching out the brushes on the Titan is easy and quick.  I never thought about vacuuming the top of the trim with my Eureka, but do all the time now with the Titan.
5.  The powerbrush.  This Miele comes with a powerbrush, which was essential for our house, because we have carpet, and some of it "thick pile".  This powerbrush makes it easy to use on carpet and then by just pushing a switch on the handle, you can turn off the power (but not the suction) to the powerbrush and continue to vacuum the hardwood or tile floor.  It's not as great as the hardfloor brush (which is also included), but it definitely works better to suck up dust and hairballs better than my Eureka ever did on hardfloor.
6.  The filters.  This model came with a HEPA filter, but we haven't even used it and the air quality (at least while vacuuming) seemed better!  We don't have allergies (at least not indoor ones) though so I'm probably not the best person to believe.
7.  The suction.  It has six different levels of suction and even at the lowest suction end, it still managed to suck up more dirt than my Eureka ever could!  (there's a piece of molding missing around a part on our floor and dirt falls in there like it's the grand canyon....the Titan removed it all, on the LOWEST suction setting!).  The most amazing thing is that even with the brush attachments, it doesn't kick the dirt backwards, to be scattered across the floor again.  It actually picks up the dirt on hard floor surfaces!
Things that could improve:
1.  I wish there were a "handle" on the top of the unit, when it's on its three caster wheels.  It would be nice to just pick it up as is and move it over a really high threshold or all the baby-gates we have in our house, without putting it on its "feet" first.
2.  A place to store the "parquet floorbrush" on the vacuum itself.  It's the only adapter/brush that doesn't have a "home" on the Titan.  
3.  Might also be nice to "retract" the hose that attaches the canister with the brush attachments, for storage.  There seems to be a lot of hose to figure out how to wind around the handle before putting it away.  Maybe they could figure out how to make the hose shorter sometimes and longer when you need it.
Overall, I'm EXTREMELY satisfied with this vacuum.  And it's even gotten my husband (who NEVER vacuums) to vacuum once in a while!  I'd definitely recommend this to my friends and family.