ID: B002M3SOCE-R2QY0HHBL4N6NK-A1YLE4WIPHNZGT
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-touch-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A1YLE4WIPHNZGT
ReviewerName: JTS
Date: January 16, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Ipod Touch as a daily organizer
Content:
I purchased the Ipod Classic a couple of years ago and love it and therefore was not in the market for another mp3 player.  However, when I read about the Ipod Touch I was very intrigued by its many features and ability to download a wide variety of apps.  To justify purchasing another Ipod so soon after getting the Classic I did some research on how the Touch performed as a daily organizer.  The idea was to replace my current organizer, a 4 year old Palm Tungsten, with the Touch.  It was very important to me that I didnt lose any of the Palm features as it has been my lifeline organizer for both work and personal.  I primarily use the Palm calender, contacts, memo, and notes.  Based on that context, here are the Pros and Cons of this really cool gadget as I see it so far:
PROS:  
a) Excellent design, feel, response.  Just a really cool gadget to have.  Also, it seems to have very reliable performance so far.
b) The built in calendar on the Touch is extremely limited (i.e. it sucks) but you can purchase Pocket Informant (PI) from the app store which will give you a robust and flexible calendar and To Do program.  Pocket Informant is still not 100% on par with the Palm calendar features I'm accustomed to but some of the gaps are minor (i.e. Palm allows for annual calendar view, PI does not, Palm will highlight conflicts in your schedule, PI does not).  The good news is PI is constantly being improved and updated and you get these updates for free after purchase.
c) I use my Palm to store alot of notes and info (i.e. birthdays, passwords, addresses, etc).  There is no good program on the Touch to do this but once again there is a great app that can handle this feature.  Its called Awesome Note.  This program actually exceeds anything that I had on my Palm.  I love it.
d) The contacts program on the Touch is adequate and does the job so that I don't need to download any special app for it.
e) Based on what I mentioned, the touch makes for a solid daily organizer.  I would say its a hair below what a dedicated organizer like the Palm Tungsten is but that difference is overcome by all the extra features the Touch has that the Palm doesnt.  Like Wi-Fi internet access(which works flawlessly), really great game player, and the biggest advantage of them all - countless apps to choose from which expands the Touch capabilities by leaps and bounds.  I downloaded a free dictionary so now I don't have to reference a large bulky hardcopy dictionary anymore.  I downloaded a free unit converter and a free language translater.  All of this at the tip of my fingers and in a small sleek package.
d) Oh yeah I almost forgot its also an mp3 player too...
CONS
a) Some of the important apps I mentioned before are not built into the Touch.  You have to pay extra to download them.
b) Battery life.  The Palm can easily go about a week of normal usage before charging.  I've had to charge the Touch much more frequently.  I'd say every other day on average.
c) It does not come with an external charger.  The cable that comes with it will only charge if its connected to your PC.  You can easily buy an external charger but it costs extra (make sure the charger is compatible with 3rd Generation)
d) There is not a direct, straightforward sync process.  The Palm came with desktop software allowing you to sync all your contacts, calendar, notes, todo's in one easy shot with your PC.  The Touch uses iTunes which is good to sync your media and apps but everything else is a little more complicated.  I'm still trying to figure out the easiest way to sync.  This is important to me because if I ever lose my Touch or it breaks then I will have lost all my info with no backup.
In conclusion this is a great product and I havent even loaded one song onto it yet because its much more than a media player.  By the way, Vaja makes some excellent cases for the iPod.  The prices are on the high end but the quality and styles are top notch and will last a lifetime.  I have vaja cases for my Palm and Classic and have never had to replace them.