ID: B002JPITXY-R9RJVQESA4ISU-A31ZQ72C55RDF3
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Video-MP3-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A31ZQ72C55RDF3
ReviewerName: Wolfgang
Date: September 17, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: My mini review
Content:
i preordered it and recieved it on the 15th. Only thing bad i could think of is that UPS did not come until 2pm.  
first of all, i have the first generation 30 gb and 1 think i love about the 1st generation is that the casing was made so that it's really hard to scratch. i think the zune hd is similar. it feels really solid in my hand. I have the 32 and with the brush looking finish, i would think small scratches are barely noticable
i gave it a 5 because of 4 things.  First, the sound quality is very impressive.  I did not use the earpiece that came with it but microsoft earbud that i got for $20.  But the sound was amazing.  It seems like the sound gets louder with zune hd compare to 30 gb but i have to test it out again with a same song
2nd, zune hd is like an eyecandy.  When you listen to your music, you could check the artist's bio, pictures, others albums without the wifi on.  And the screensaver (i don't know what it's called) is an eye candy as well
3rd, i like how responsive the touch screen is.  I have a samsung tocco phone which is also a touchscreen but it does not response as well as zune hd. the keyboard took few tries before i got used to but it's not that bad.  
4th, OLED it was absolutely amazing.  i compared the screen with my samsung tocco, sony psp and the 30 gb zune and you could totally see deeper, brighter colors.  There is a free tv program on zune 4.0 marketplace that everyone should check out, Pysch season 1 ep 1 in HD for free. it is amazing. i have not yet downloaded a full movie yet, but i like the fact that you have a decision to either buy or rent a movie.  
and lastly, i love quickplay.  You could pin just about anything, from a song, to an album, application, even a web address.  I pinned twitter and it shows twitter icon.  
i have not timed the battery life on it but it seems like it will last many hours per charge