ID: B002XZLURC-R3RLXNYRLYYIA-A2DENGCLUB19CP
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30Vt-X1-Light-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A2DENGCLUB19CP
ReviewerName: harrison grace
Date: February 2, 2010
Helpful: 5 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very Well Done: Near perfect laptop for a substandard price
Content:
I am a very picky shopper and researched for my purchase of a new laptop for a long time before settling on the ASUS UL30Vt-A1. I shopped around for other PC's in stores and online and even borrowed a friends Macbook Pro for a few days to get a feel for it, and ultimately i'm very happy with this little laptop.
As a college student I was looking primarily for a light and portable laptop that I could carry around with me everywhere all day. I'm not a big gamer, but I wanted a powerful enough system to run some games if I wanted and needed something powerful enough to multitask with Photoshop. Battery life was also a top priority, as I wanted a truly portable laptop to use inside and outside all day without needing to be tethered or worry about running out of battery.
I had it for a little over a month now and the ASUS UL30VT-A1 definitely met all of these criteria, and has continued to exceed what I had expected in a new laptop. I think the truly innovative thing about the Vt is it's versatility. The ability to trade power and graphics with battery longevity instantaneously is an unprecedented feature that i am frankly amazed that no one else had tried before. Amazing idea ASUS.
Battery: 10/10 "the best"
Its amazing to be able to use this all day (im usually away from my place for over 14hours) and not have to worry about running out or needing to stay tethered to an outlet. I don't even bring my charger with me anymore. On integrated graphics I get around 10 hours with wifi, multiple browsers, Word, and a few other programs open. I kinda expected it would be 12 hours under normal use, as all new laptops seem to get 2 hours less then they advertise when using it under normal workloads. With both graphic cards going watching videos and doing normal computing stuff I get around 7 hours. Bottom line, I find myself not having to worry about the battery gauge, it'll last me the day doing whatever I need.  
Performance: 10/10 "exceeds my needs"
Now a super long battery life wouldn't be much out of the ordinary-if i was using a tiny, underpowered netbook. What really sets this apart is the fact that it has that kind of batter life while being powerful and light. So far ive been able to multitask with as many programs as I want with no slow down. Normally run multiple windows of Firefox, IE, Word, PP, Outlook, and Photoshop at the same time. Granted this probably isnt that taxing of a load as I haven't played any high power games, but its great for me. I haven't even needed to use the "turbo" overclock feature.
Graphics: 9/10 "once again, exceeds my needs"
So not only does this have better battery life than most laptops(mackbook pro included), but has a dedicated graphics card as well! I love the ability to be able to switch on the fly depending on my needs. Most of the time the integrated graphics does fine, itll handle online streaming video(even HD) without a hiccup. With the integrated one on too, things only get better. Pictures and video pop and run smoothly. Once again the graphics capabilities of this laptop exceed my ordinary needs, but i like the extra headroom these options give me. Only real thing is that the screen is a little glossy( well, they all are nowadays it seems) so it can be a little troublesome outside with the sun at my back, and the vertical viewing angle. To me thats now big deal(because the screen is on a hinge you dummy, adjust it) and the horizontal viewing angle is great, much better than my old dell, and makes sharing the screen easy.   The screen does flash on and off when then graphics settings are swithed, but this is expected while video settings are being changed.
Construction/physical attributes: 9/10 "solid, but not quite a Macbook Pro unibody"   
Overall I really like it. It's met what I wanted, Its small at 13" and quite light at around 3.7lbs, and is overall smaller than any of my textbooks even with a case on. Construction is solid: i toss it around alot, carry it in my bag, and have a bad habit of opening it one handed with a flick of the screen, but it has all stayed solid and shown no signs of flex or loose parts. I like the matte-plastic bottom, it has a solid feel. The brushed aluminum top also gives it some nice durability and class, over which ive gotten a few comments on. Even the track pad, on which i've heard alot of complaints about and was a little worried about before using it, has worked well and i even kind prefer it to the flat types. The only complaint is the palm rest. It's glossy plastic which while being structurally solid, feels cheaper than the rest of the materials. Also ive had my palm hit the track-pad a few times while typing; would be better if there was a guard or recessed track pad. While not as cool looking as a full aluminum unibody like the Macbook pro, it's solid and had good construction
Also its very light and extremely cool. Even after running for hours, the bottom and palm rests barely get warmer than body temperature. Beats all other computers I've used in this regard,and was one of the reasons I choose this over the macbook pro which can get quite hot under heavy use.
Overall, I love the versatility and features of this laptop. The ability to majorly change my performance, graphics, and battery settings on the fly lets this laptop doing this that other single ones cannot. The battery life cannot be beat. I also really like Window 7. Boots up in seconds and has most of the cool mac-like features and some extra ones too. The Value is great, and it comes with the best standard warranty ive seen on any laptop. 2 years + one year for ACCIDENTAL DAMAGE. So even I break the darn thing, its under warranty. Bottom line was that I was comparing this with a MacBook Pro. To get a comparably equipped Pro it would cost >$500 to match the the ASUS (4GB ram, 500GB hd, warranty). Even then this was a unique laptop with its unrivaled battery life and adaptability. I decided to go with the ASUS and use the extra $500 to save for a SSD in a year or so and to help pay college expenses. On campus all the "hip" kid are trying to get macbooks, but now i've got the real unique laptop at a better value and superior specs. The real cool kids get ASUS.