ID: B002C7446A-R13CQVCM1OABZO-A1JUBRIZMO0RJV
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB991LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1JUBRIZMO0RJV
ReviewerName: Stephen Hall "books911"
Date: June 21, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: The best "full-feature" notebook out there, for me.
Content:
I love my desktop computer, when sitting down for full speed and large display computing experience.  However, when I'm on the road, or simply away from my desk, I want to have a really powerful notebook, but keep some degree of portability.  The 13-inch MacBook Pro fills that solution, for me, perfectly.
For years, I had used a 12-inch Powerbook G4, to fill that mobile computing need, but it had become so much slower than my intel based desktop computer, so it was time for an intel based Mac notebook.
I chose the slightly faster model, but it has proven to be so fast, that I am certain the cheaper MacBook Pro 13-inch would be nearly as good.  Thank goodness Apple has finally included the backlit keyboard on the lower priced Pro model, while not always a necessity, it is one of those ultimate cool factors, to see your keyboard light up under low light levels.
The SD card slot will get those pictures from your digital camera to your computer faster than ever.  It always felt clunky to me, to hook up the cable, and I am already appreciative of popping the SD card right from camera to notebook.  The return of firewire 800 to the 13-inch model was also a key for me upgrading because firewire is still very common in external hard drives, and it allows for convenient firewire target mode, for transferring settings and preferences between Macs.
Finally, it was the right time for me to buy because the computer comes with OS X Leopard.  Snow Leopard will be out in September, but it will cost only $29, so it was not worth waiting several months, to save only $29.  I save that much by simply buying from Amazon whenever possible.
Overall, this MacBook Pro 13-inch has fully impressed me.  The build quality is amazing, and I do not think anyone could find a more solid notebook computer anywhere.  What I love about this generation of notebooks is that you do not have to sacrifice much performance, when you are on your notebook.  In truth, my model actually has a slightly faster processor than my 18-month old iMac, and I can tell this difference when encoding video and doing other intensive tasks.  The integrated Nvidia graphics in the notebook while not earth shattering are the best integrated graphics that have ever been in a notebook.  
While long requested, the display of this notebook is finally somewhat higher quality as well.  I have no complaints with it. 
I'm certain this MacBook Pro will serve my computing needs for a long time to come, and do that while being such a beautiful and fun experience along the way too. Thank you Apple and Amazon.