ID: B002L6HE7S-R2LKBSA317SRY9-A3FN97FZLKYDCU
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Orange-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A3FN97FZLKYDCU
ReviewerName: Ali Z.
Date: December 16, 2009
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great player but falls short of perfect
Content:
After years of resisting the Apple bandwagon, I finally took the plunge and bought an iPod Nano.  I have owned three different MP3 players in the past so I was curious to see how the Nano stacked up to the competition.
My first impression of the device was that it's by and large the most attractive player I've ever used.  The Nano with its sleek design, lightweight body, and polished exterior is a sheer joy to hold in your hands.  It FEELS like a high end product.  The larger, high resolution screen is an improvement over the previous generation and allows you to comfortably watch videos without squinting.  True, the iPhone and Touch screens are better suited for videos but this is the best size screen for a player of its form factor.  It's well-suited for watching short clips, TV shows, and music videos.  Watching full-length movies however may asking too much from this little player.  Unfortunately it can only read MP4 video files which means I have to convert my existing videos first.  That's not a big deal as there are plenty of freeware tools that allow me to easily do just that.
Believe it or not, the biggest feature that compelled me to buy the Nano was the addition of the new FM radio.  I listen to NPR throughout the day so having an integrated FM radio was a must for me.  The radio has some nice features including RDS support, ability to save favorite stations, and live pause.  But I was disappointed in the reception which is no better than my Sansa.  It doesn't work well inside of certain buildings and can be spotty at times outdoors.  I also wish you could name your saved stations by something other than the frequency number.
I bought the Nano mainly for listening to audiobooks and podcasts.  As an audiobook reader, the click wheel is great for quickly jumping to any part of the book.  It doesn't have a bookmark feature but you can use iTunes to set the "Remember Playback Position" parameter.  Also, downloaded audiobooks and podcasts will be categorized under music by default.  You'll need to change the attributes in iTunes manually.
Other notable features are VoiceOver which tells you the title and artist at the click of a button (if the ID3 tag is correct), a so-so speaker, a video recorder.  The video recorder shoots decent cameraphone-quality videos and allows you to mix in some fun special effects to your videos.  This is great to have for spur of the moment recordings.  But if you are like me who already has a cellphone equipped with video capability, this feature may not be all that useful to you.  Also, the camera does not take still images, it shoots video only.  I haven't played with any of the other features like the pedometer yet.
If I had to name the biggest gripe with this player, it would be that its compatible with iTunes only.  For a Linux user like me it will not work with my OS (Ubuntu) at all and will not work with 3rd party music management software in Windows.  iTunes is extremely slow even when performing mundane tasks like tagging.  The clunky interface makes it very difficult to work in and the music management features work inconsistently.  It's too bad Apple forces people to use iTunes because it can make an otherwise excellent player very frustrating to use.  Can't wait for Nano 5th generation support to be available in 3rd party players so I can finally drop iTunes.
Most of my gripes with the Nano are fairly minor.  Overall its an excellent player and the best in its class.  Because of the quality of the product and ease of use, I find myself using it far more often than I did my other players.  It can get dinged easily so make sure you get a good case for it.  I use the clear plastic case and like it a lot.