ID: B002P3KMPI-R2KNBQCFI0UF2B-A1LD83JADW5TQ6
Category: Laptops
Product: UL50Vt-A1-Light-15-6-Inch-Black-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1LD83JADW5TQ6
ReviewerName: Evan T. Mcdermott "nanulak"
Date: December 4, 2009
Helpful: 21 of 22
Rating: 4.0
Title: Former Mac User
Content:
This is my first computer since my Apple Powerbook G4. I decided to shop around for a new PC because a new Mac simply doesn't exist for the amount of money that I was looking to spend.
I shopped around for a few weeks and once I finally came across this model, I jumped on it. 
The laptop arrived in two days thanks to Amazon. After all of the bad press about Vista I was hesitant about coming back to the PC world. Now after using Windows 7 for a week, I am hesitant to ever go back to a Mac. 
I was immediately impressed with the look of the brushed aluminum lid and the chiclet style keyboard. The numeric pad is also nice and overall the laptop has a very sleek, impressive look. However, coming from a zero gloss aluminum Powerbook, it took me a while to adjust to the high gloss of the UL50VT. The screen, the plastic surrounding the screen, and everywhere else besides the aluminum lid and underside are all glossy black plastic. The track pad is directly on this glossy plastic which takes a little getting used to. Also the mouse buttons are a little stiff and I wish they were two separate buttons instead of just one. These small gripes almost turned me against my new laptop, but after a week I am used to the look and feel of the laptop and more importantly, I am very happy with its performance.
With an Intel rated 5 star Core 2 Duo processor and 4 GB of DDR3 RAM, I have no complaints about performance. I use my laptop for movies, music, web browsing, and college. I don't often play games but it is nice to know it's a definite possibility.
The UL50VT boots up fast and lasts for a long time. With brightness maxed out while doing web surfing and homework, I am averaging about 6-8 hours. This is more than enough already and if I lower the performance and brightness the battery lasts for around 10. 
The screen is widescreen and bright. I do wish the resolution was higher than 1366 x 768. For a 15 inch laptop I found that to be a little low, but it is not a show stopper. 
Overall the Asus UL50VT is a sleek, well performing portable laptop. This laptop is well worth the price and so far has easily handled everything that I have thrown at it. If you don't mind the glossy appearance and can get past the less than great track pad and mouse buttons, the Asus UL50VT is a very solid purchase.