ID: B002PHM0IQ-R3RS4EAYLU8LJF-A2V77D8SNUEQZ1
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VPC-CW13FX-14-Inch-Windows-Premium
ReviewerID: A2V77D8SNUEQZ1
ReviewerName: Maren
Date: January 11, 2010
Helpful: 5 of 7
Rating: 4.0
Title: Fine piece of laptop with small issues
Content:
I've own this laptop since October 2009. I bought it at CompUSA for $799. I replaced my Toshiba Satellite Pro which I will use to compare it with the most, so you want to forgive me that.
It is easily set up right out of the box. Too much preinstalled as always (for me) so I deinstalled most of the software first. I don't use Internet Explorer (IE) and I use a different Windows Explorer as well. Sorry, Microsoft but you have to do a much better job on those. I don't need a trial of Norton or Office as well. I use OpenOffice which is for free and just as good for me.
Windows 7 is impressive and works smoothly. To me it is the better version of XP, Vista never counted, an accident so to speak :-)
Red color and the finish are of high quality. It's a dark red, very shiny and beautiful. All my older laptops were black. I know my cat walks over it sometimes and even though I have been using it on a daily basis for months I don't see a single scratch or dent anywhere.
All connections are of high quality and easily reached. Almost everything is on the front or on the sides, no need to meddle with the back for something.
You will have your fingerprints all over it within 10 minutes. If you don't like it, don't buy it. It doesn't bother me, it even makes me clean it more often which should be very healthy these days. I read that keyboard, mouse, telephone and steering wheel are the most contaminated and dirtiest things in our life. Pesty! Yikes!
The screen is bright, not reflective, colors are saturated and brilliant. If you want to brighten it up or dim it just hold the "Fn" key and push the "Bright + or -" buttons which are on "F5 and F6". 
Keyboard is first class, very quiet. I just miss the separate 'Home' and 'End' keys which all of my former laptops had. Here you have to hold the "Fn" key and then push the arrow keys in order to come in front or behind a word/sentence. The "Delete" key is in the first row, I have to get used to that too. I am so used to having it close to the arrow keys.
The "Display off" button is very helpful. I use this very often when I just leave the room, just listen to music or leave the laptop on over night.
I haven't used the "Web" button yet, this laptop powers on in less than 20 seconds, so no need. But nice to know that I could go online without booting up the laptop.
The speakers are well-positioned between screen and keyboard. They are loud enough but of course you cannot party with them. If you want to set the volume up or down, just push "Fn" , hold it and then push the keys that have a second function (blue font) because it doesn't have a "wheel" to set the volume. If you work in fullscreen mode then Fn and key works best.
What I have noticed right away is how amazingly quiet the fan is. I cannot hear it, I only feel it when I hold my hand in front of it. At the beginning I did this constantly because I was afraid the fan would not work. But it does.
The laptop doesn't get warm at all. My Toshiba became so warm that I wasn't able to put it on my lap for long, I had to get me a cushion. The Sony Vaio? I have had it running for 4 days and there is no increased temperature noticeable at all and the fan still doesn't make any noises. That is an absolute "WOW"
Battery doesn't last long, doesn't bother me. For on the road I have a Netbook and this one here is always plugged in.
Graphic card by Nvidia is powerful but I get a blue screen every now and then and when I look it up it is always caused by the Nvidia driver. I have already installed every possible update but it is not better. Gotta look into this.
I am a bit disappointed about 3 USB connections only. Even my old machines had 4. I have to use a USB splitter because I'm using a mouse, a laptop light at night, charge my iPhone and need my external hard drives to be plugged in.
SD card reader is built in, very useful to me because I have SD cards only.
Sony Vaio checkes your updates automatically and a small notification pops up if new updates are available. Unfortunately Sony's update website only works with IE and not with Mozilla. So I have to open IE in order to see all updates. Stupid is, that this message pops up all the time, even after all available updates are installed and what does it show me? Every single update ever made for this model, even the ones I already have. Speaking of 25 updates and more in the future this is very confusing. If Sony scans my system configuration and model anyway, why doesn't it remove or hide updates I already have. How will I tell the difference?
Since I got this notebook to edit my private videos I am very happy about the Firewire / IEEE-1394 / I-Link connection to get my movies right off my camcorder.
All in all a very good notebook, very quiet, no temperature that boils your thighs, an eye candy, very light and handy with good parts and pieces in it. Some small issues don't make me cry over it.