ID: B002OL2PLU-R7M2AN6WV7Y4Z-A26BKP5YFLJN34
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-32-Internet-Tablet-Android
ReviewerID: A26BKP5YFLJN34
ReviewerName: Earl E. A. Dopter
Date: October 20, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Initial thoughts on the newest Archos
Content:
I just received and charged up my new Archos 5 500 GB Internet Tablet with Android. I am comparing it to a previous generation Archos 7 unit that I have some familiarity with, but that I did not own. It was owned by one of my workmates with whom I shared a hotel room; I got a chance to run the 7 through its paces and found several shortcomings. Most specifically, I didn't care for the GUI very much. It was non-intuitive, slow, and cumbersome. The new Android-based GUI is excellent. A huge upgrade.
Right out of the box, as soon as it was charged, I connected it easily to my wireless internet and it found its first firmware update. I installed it without problems and went to work customizing my unit. Everything works as expected. In fact, it exceeds my expectations in every way. The unit is solidly built, the screen quality is superb, and the output to my large hi-def screen in my living room is everything I was hoping for. In fact, it's truly remarkable to think that all this technology and storage capacity is packed into this beautiful little device. My future travels - and I travel a great deal, mostly long-haul overseas trips - will be changed forever. I will update this review daily for the first few days as I am able. I know that some have been frustrated by certain glitches (I have not experienced any yet), with the criticism being that the device was released too soon. My thought is that as long as Archos are sending through firmware updates regularly, I can live with being one of the first to own this serious new toy.
More to come, but great job Archos, and if you are holding back ordering one, here's one reviewer saying to go ahead and pull the trigger. If you have any questions or comments I'm happy to test a feature for you or answer any questions you may have.
UPDATE 11/19/09: I've been using the Archos off and on since my original review. The OS continues to improve drastically with each update, and there have been several. This was definitely an early adopter's device, and Archos is doing a good job of keeping on top of it. They are aware of the remaining bugs and are working through them as near as I can see. I have ripped a bunch of movies and copied others from my hard drive. Using Windows 7 running in Parallels 5 on a MacBook Pro, I have been able to see the Archos as a device, and copy (NOT CONVERT) each movie in each original format, and all have played flawlessly without further work. This to me was amazing, as Windows 7, whether through Explorer or through WMP, wanted to perform a conversion before passing the files through to the Archos unit. NONE required any conversion. The picture quality has been outstanding. I have still not tested the audio quality or the DVR functionality, and will cover these in future updates.
The internet browser is good. I find the touch screen not nearly as responsive as my iPhone, which is disappointing. It's OK, it's just not as good as the near-perfect iPhone! One app that keeps freezing is Craigslist. Not sure what's up with that, but definitely needs a new rev. The mail app works very well, as does the internet connectivity via wifi. I know some reviewers had problems, but the later updates have corrected these issues completely, as near as I can tell. This is a world-class, cutting-edge, unique device and I'm very, very happy I went for it. For those with no patience or pioneering spirit, I definitely recommend waiting a bit longer for all the bugs to be worked out, but I love it. I never thought I would say that about a French technology product! More to come.