ID: B002C7458M-R394I13KU9SACW-A2A1TERJYHVTS7
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB985LL-15-4-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2A1TERJYHVTS7
ReviewerName: G. Joel Franco "Joel Franco"
Date: April 9, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Just missing perfection for a sub-par mouse pad
Content:
As my 4yr old HP laptop finally died on me, I was in the market for a new laptop.  I am in the Film/TV industry so I needed something sturdy, fast, and something I could use editing software such as Final Cut Pro.  Naturally my attention moved to a MAC and I settled on the MacBook Pro 15" line.
Overall, this is truly a real amazing laptop.  The keyboard is wide enough, and easy to use, speed is great, and so far I haven't had too many problems switching from Windows to Apple OS.  While I don't think Apple OS is the salvation to the world, I do see lots of improvements over Windows.
What is not good about the MacBook Pro (and for the price it is unacceptable) is the mouse pad and the heat of the computer. The mouse pad is not good by any standard.  Often times touching the pad (something which works wonderfully and most other laptops) does not work until you actually press on the pad.  When you try to touch the pad, often you end highlighting parts of a web page for no reason.  Same actually happens with pressing on the pad, but less frequently.  Also, I find myself having to press real hard on the pad for it to work properly.  Again, this should not happen.
What is good about the pad, is the ability to use it almost like an iPhone.  While I don't particularly find this feature useful, I can see that people like it and may take advantage.
The computer does get real hot (again, for the price they need to do something about it), but I have read that on most Macs (desktops as well) the chips tend to run hotter than on Windows based PC.  Curious, but again, for the price these costs, they need to do something to refrain from heating up like this.
This is truly a real good product, but not perfect as price, heat of the computer, and horrid mousepad keep it from being absolutely great.