ID: B002P3KMVC-R3DMLX5U87K63W-A30HFCYA62G9RQ
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30A-X5-Light-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A30HFCYA62G9RQ
ReviewerName: CJay
Date: January 17, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 3.0
Title: Returned after less than 1 month- bad hard drive?
Content:
Bad Hard drive/ warranty issues/ customer service Review:
I spent a lot of time reviewing 13-14" laptops before making this purchase. In part I choose Asus because it had the lowest breakdowns in the first 3 years of all major brands. However, within the first few times of using this laptop I noticed that when I closed the lid the right rear of the laptop would make a nonstop clicking noise. Sometimes I could open the lid and the laptop would work fine, but other times it would not respond, the clicking noise would continue until it would shut down on its own. I really, really did not want to waste time trying to solve this problem with returning it or calling customer service, but it keeps happening so I finally decided to contact Asus. I look through all of the manuals sent with the laptop, the emanual, and online, but I could not find their phone number (aside a Mon-Fri toll number). Finally while entering the issue in their email support page, I found the number on the bottom of the laptop for 24 hour support- near the serial number. I called the number and told them the problem. They said it was probably a bad hard drive and they would repair it (not replace) since it was under warranty. The repair would take maybe 3 business days (plus shipping both ways), maybe more- there was no guarantee and no way to track it. Because I have had the laptop in my possession less than 30 days (although I ordered it more than 30 days ago) I feel more comfortable with a new laptop and what am I supposed to do during the weeks they have the laptop. They said they count the 30 days from date of purchase even if it takes 2 weeks to receive. Frustrated, I called Amazon. The phone call took less than 5 mins. They said they would send me a new laptop immediately and I just need to return the damaged laptop to them within 30 days. Excellent! Hopefully the new one has a working hard drive. I hope the bad hard drive is not inherent to this model. 
Laptop Review:
Having used the laptop for a little over 2 weeks overall I like it. The screen is good, but it is very reflective. It does get a lot of finger prints, but it's really no big deal. I have not been able to get the smart log on to work. I don't like the keyboard. I find it a little tight and I kit the wrong keys a lot. Many people loved the keyboard, so this surprises me. However, I don't use this for my main laptop, so it is okay. If I was going to type on this laptop a lot it would bug me, but you probably get used to it. The speakers are too quiet. I don't like that you have to hold down the function and F10, etc.. key to control the volume. I prefer a quick one key or button control. The keys are also sort of cheap and loose sounding. Especially in the bottom left corner. I am not sure how they will hold up over the long run. I wish they had a better owner's manual.
Overall, aside from the hard drive noise it is a quiet, cool (not hot), little laptop. The screen resolution is good and overall I like it. As long as the replacement laptop works fine I will remain a satisfied customer. If it does not work fine I will update this review.