ID: B002ONCCGQ-R2PWM5BNSSM44X-A21J6AYBCQVEQ1
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DM3-1030US-13-3-Inch-Silver-Laptop
ReviewerID: A21J6AYBCQVEQ1
ReviewerName: C. Rao "I hate EPSON!"
Date: January 3, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 4
Rating: 3.0
Title: This is just an ok laptop
Content:
i think the previous reviews have already documented almost every pros and cons. i only need to re-state those that i have with my own personal experience:
pros:
- cheap. i got it from office depot for $549 + tax - $50 MIR. this is still much better than the amazon offer;
- comparatively light weight. not many $500 laptops provide both 13.3 and 4lb something all-in-one
- many features, except the optical drive
Now the following are something I'd really pointed out for those serious buyers
cons:
- touch pad. I think it has two sides of defects. h/w side: the surface is too slippy like a mirror. this design is natively flaw for providing control for serious users. s/w side: the driver sucks and it seems it is trying to provide those zooming features like Apple's MacBooks but turn out to be a huge defect when resumed from sleep. every time i have to restart the system to reactivate the touch pad. there is a on/off button to turn on/off the touch pad - i guess this desgin is supposed to be used when keyboard users have the option to type w/o bothered by the touch pad - this turns out to be a joke and useless feature.
- junk ware. OMG HP has done too much - it wasn't a problem in the good old days when it comes with an installation CD. Now m$ stop doing this. You've got to prepare to spend enough time to make the laptop work - i mean working to fit in your own personal preferences which the default is not for any man-kind's. there are too many to type here. so i will just skip it but just provide general review.
when i'm about to wrap up, i recalled some review calling this laptop a macbook killer or something which turns out to be a joke. now i understand why some ppl will spend that much money to get a macbook, or sony vaio 13" - BTW, that was my wife :). I see the differences.
Overall, it is just an ok laptop if u get it with $500. it is what i expected to get for what I paid.