ID: B002GHBRX4-R2FM0HW343YV8L-A34CM3GTDDBUYM
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3865-Platinum-Cyclonic-Canister
ReviewerID: A34CM3GTDDBUYM
ReviewerName: Jmiah22 "Jmiah22"
Date: April 6, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent Vacuum!!
Content:
I just purchased this vacuum after our Bissell Healthy Home vacuum that I purchased not more than 2 years ago died with a burning odor (checked the belt, checked for clogs...nothing...motor is burnt out) it only had a lousy one year warranty.  So I went to Amazon.com and started searching for a new vacuum and reading reviews and utilizing other websites reviews and decided on a brand. Hoover. From what I can see they have the best warranty for a vacuum cleaner...SIX years! I then waffled between the Hoover UH70015 Platinum Collection Cyclonic Bagless Upright Vacuum Cleaner and this Hoover S3865 Platinum Cyclonic Bagless Canister Vacuum Cleaner with Power Nozzle I decided on the canister vacuum. I am glad I did. This vacuum is a POWERHOUSE! I could not believe all the dirt I pulled out of my carpets! This vacuum is very strong, in fact so strong that you can actually see it lifting the carpet when you pass over it! 
What clinched the decision between the two for me is the upright does NOT have the turbo tool for doing upholstery and stairs (we have two carpeted staircases in our home) and the canister vacuum does. 
This vacuum is very easy to assemble, you do not need any tools. You need to make only four connections. The telescoping wand snaps into the powerhead, the handle/hose assembly snaps into the top of the telescoping wand and then you snap in the hose into the base of the canister. That's it! The only connection left is to pull out the cord and plug it in. 
This is the third bagless vacuum I have owned and by far this is the best. I am very impressed with how it empties. The first bagless I had was a disaster with a capital "D!" You had to lay the vacuum back, unsnap the dirt cup and pull it out, spilling dirt EVERYWHERE! My second was a Bissell 5770 Healthy Home Bagless Upright Vacuum and it was better but it had a major design flaw. The dirt collection cup was tapered at the bottom where your empty the dirt. The cup was round but towards the base it got narrower like a barrel. So it required you to reach up in there and have to grab all the fuzz and hair to get it out because of the shape of the dirt collection cup it did not just fall out. Now this vacuum is straight up and down. You push the button, the bottom drops out and all your dirt falls into the trash can. You do have to reach in and unhook the umbrella tube though, but that isn't so bad as by that time the cup is pretty much empty. 
There are two filters, the intake filter is a permanent foam filter that you can wash out under the faucet and keep reusing. The second filter is the HEPA filter which filters the exhaust. 
This vacuum DOES indeed have a headlight. I read different reviews where people were griping because it did not have a headlight. It *DOES* have a headlight. Maybe they had an earlier version of this model that did not have a headlight, I am not sure. The headlight appears to be LED (no more bulbs to replace!) and is pretty bright. One could wish that the cord on this vacuum was longer. I wish it was 40 foot like the Platinum Upgright version is. I can't think of any other complaints so far.