ID: B002OOWC0G-R2K7XY7NKJU2BA-A1H2FJC44LXC3F
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-T135-S1310WH-13-3-Inch-Ultrathin
ReviewerID: A1H2FJC44LXC3F
ReviewerName: RhymeBoy.G.
Date: April 21, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 3.0
Title: Be aware! Mouse pad is lagging big time!
Content:
I was able to hand on this laptop which was bought by my sister's boyfriend from Amazon.com. 
It was gift to my sister.  I did some set-ups, erase junks, install programs and etc.
As soon as I turn this laptop, I noticed that mouse was moving little lagging, unsmoothly. 
I thought it was just set up part(when you first run, windows set up the configuration)first time start, so I hoped the lagging mouse movement would go away when it is in normal use.
Well.. It is STILL lagging and move jerky.  More likely, movement of the mouse courser is not smooth at all!
I can't tell you how exactly it moves but, definitely it doesn't move as smooth as other laptops.
I did some research about this matter and I found out most of people have this problem.. glitch or move mouse moving very lagging and jerky.. VERY FRUSTRATING!!! 
I have no idea why previous people didn't mention about this issue on their reviews.
As far as I know, almost all the people who have this laptop have same issue. 
Of course this will be overcome by using wireless external mouse, but who wants to use external mouse with portable device.  People should know this before they buy it.
It definitely runs little hot, so fans kick in time to time to cool it up....  it definitely bothers me or other people when I am in the class or library.  
Even there are two big con about this laptop., my sister is fine about the machine since she was only care about the design. (Girls!!)
Since the design is the only factor for her, she said she will keep it.
Just keep in mind!! It has lagging mouse pad and run little hot compare to other 13inch laptops.
if you can't believe what I'm saying, google Toshiba T135 mouse movement,  you will see bunch of people complains over this.