ID: B002M3SONI-RU8NPXO6SYM0Y-A16J8H1QPBU5PL
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-shuffle-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A16J8H1QPBU5PL
ReviewerName: Jonathan Slager
Date: February 27, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Outstanding design (it is, after all a tiny little thing)
Content:
From the standpoint of someone who has negative feelings for Apple and their products, I have to give this little guy a lot of respect (very grudgingly).  It angers me to have to admit that Apple has produced something that isn't insanely overpriced and works really well.  Yes, I'm a hater, but I like this doohickey very much.
Full Disclosure: This is my first iPod.  I never had the urge to purchase one before because I really, really don't like iTunes (I won't go into the reasons why).
Anyway, the device itself is the size of my pinky.  It's just the right size to be impressively small, but not so small that you might accidentally mistake it for say, lint or a flake of dandruff;  A nice feature when you have a lot of lint lying around and don't want to vacuum up your mp3 player by mistake. 
I run, I sweat buckets, and I run in Chicago in the winter.  Not only is this thing doused by human sweat on a daily basis(gross!), it gets exposed to extreme changes in temperature.  Handles it like a champ.
Battery life is listed as about 10 hours, and that about corresponds to what I've observed.  Again, considering that something only a little bigger than my left nostril is powering an acoustic device, its controls and 2 GB of memory for 10 hrs, and that it was only 50 bucks, I am humbly impressed.
The headphones fit my ears just fine.  But everyone's ear canals have different shapes and sizes, so be careful.  The tone quality is good, not great.  It handles high and medium frequencies very well, bass not so much.  If you wanted to have the same kind of listening experience while running that you have on your home sound system,  then the Shuffle isn't for you.  Look for something bigger, bulkier, more expensive and with about a 5th of the battery life.  That's NOT a design flaw, it's life.
The controls take some getting used to.  They are not easy to use at first.  Apple could have made a full suite of controls (forward, reverse, repeat, 5 band equalizer, etc.) the size of wasp eyeballs, but have fun using them.  Instead,Apple went in the right direction by choosing a minimalistic approach and incorporating a simple control suite on the headphone cable.  If you design your playlists well, and accept the fact that 3 touches might be registered by the Shuffle as 2 touches once in a while, or that you'll pause on accident while trying to hear a song title, you'll be happy. Again, if your hands are shaking like jello from physical exertion or from the cold and the Shuffle is having a hard time determining exactly what you want to do, that's not a design flaw. 
I have read negative reviews about how the Shuffle craps out when exposed to some conditions.  If you are running a marathon and the three gallons of human sweat that you dump out happens to short the controls on the Shuffle, well, I have to say I don't really blame that on Apple.  The thing is small enough to clip anywhere on your body.  If you do happen to get a faulty Shuffle, then return it for a new one.  It's almost impossible to manufacture electronics for this cheap without an occasional burp in the process, unless the manufacturer dumps a lot more money into quality control.  Ultimately, that cost would have to be passed to the consumer.
Overall, for the money you pay for it, and for it's wonderfully small size, the 4th generation Shuffle is well engineered, looks good, and performs far better than I would expect.  I'd give it 5 stars if I wasn't forced to use iTunes.