ID: B002QQ8EKO-R2P8A8NRFE3E1C-A174W9EVCAARM2
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MC207LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A174W9EVCAARM2
ReviewerName: Elizabeth S.
Date: January 1, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 11
Rating: 3.0
Title: 3+
Content:
I started out with an Apple computer many years ago. Moved on to PCs and then to a Dell laptop with Vista (hated it). Finally gave into the pressure from family/friends/advertising and purchased my MacBook very recently. Initially, I was thrilled. The thing is solid - love the power cable and keyboard. The picture quality is sublime - video and audio both great. When I set up my network and wireless connection, this part of it was so easy to set up. (Unfortunately, this is now the only computer I own that I can use to access the Internet - have no clue as to why). I'm still figuring out how to use my Mac, but I'm assuming it won't take too long. Those are my positive comments - now on to the negative.
1. MUCH too expensive! Nearly 1K is a crazy cost for something that will probably only last a few years.
2. SHOCKED that basic software is not included (should have done more research first)! I edit books from home, and all of the files sent to me are in Word format. I downloaded the trial version of iWork and am not impressed. I do not need all the extras - only a compatible word program - yet now I have to shell out another $80 for additional software. In my humble opinion, a word processing program should take front seat to programs such as GarageBand and Photo Booth!
3. Why white and shiny? Shows every fingerprint and every speck of dust! At this price, additional colors and finishes should be options at no additional cost.
4. Why can I not download a Yahoo or Google toolbar that is compatible with Safari? I really miss those! Am not fond of the toolbar on Safari - nor the Bookmarks feature. 
5. The battery charge does not last as long as stated.
In summary: I'm still unsure as to whether I made a HUGE mistake switching to a Mac, or whether it will grow on me - guess only time will tell. To the folks who developed this product - lower your prices and provide more variety in both hardware and software!