ID: B002IKLJUK-R1K2BLF8ZAMH22-A2J8B6TEZR9112
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Panasonic-DMC-GF1-Four-Thirds-Interchangeable-Digital
ReviewerID: A2J8B6TEZR9112
ReviewerName: D. Gimenez
Date: April 3, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Initially dissapointed, but now I'm taking awesome shots.
Content:
I wanted a new camera to replace my existing P&S camera.  I was always disappointed with on what was a high end P&S at the time of purchase: Outside shots were good, but inside were so-so, low light was bad, and flash was abysmal.  I considered purchasing a DSLR, but I wanted a camera I would actually take out, and the DSLRs seemed too big.
At first a lot of my shots with this camera were very mixed: There were a lot of good ones, but the low light was bad, flash was terrible, and I got a lot of shaky pictures even during the day.  I didn't see much benefit from my P&S.
My problem was I was trying to be Mr. Professional Camera man right away.  If you just put it on the "Intellegent Auto" mode you'll get some pretty impressive shots.  Once I did that a lot of my problems went away.
I also figured out that when you're playing with shutter speed and aperture that this camera has an exposure assist.  This was really helpful once I felt comfortable moving away from iA.  I felt pretty "pro" fiddling with things and having it come out nice like, even though I didn't know what I was doing at first.  Now I've got a sense of what the combinations of ISO/SS/F will affect the picture.  It's like the camera taught me.
I really like the pre-whatchamacallit focus scene mode.  This helps with getting those narrow depth of field shots, which I'm surprised I can pull off with the lens this came with.
I still don't care much for flash shots.  I've played with the settings and have gotten better results.  Part of me thinks I just hate flash.
Also, I've seen this critique before, but the lack of a view finder makes outdoor shots in bright light a pain.
And one tip: Get a higher class SD card.  I took the old 1GB card from my P&S and there was sometimes some big waiting between shots.  When my class 10 card came in, it was significantly reduced.  In the manual it recommends at least a class 6.
I've only had this camera for a little while, but I've taken a lot of shots, and I'm extremely happy with it.  I've taken some beautiful shots of my wife, my dog and my cat, as well as friends and flowers.  I feel like they look like they came from a magazine.
EDIT: Still happy after a month.  I got the smallest Lowepro bag that would fit and it has worked well.