ID: B002Q8HK7K-ROXHP5CRW4WXE-A3NPC4Q2MT6EUW
Category: Laptops
Product: UL80Vt-A1-14-Inch-Light-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A3NPC4Q2MT6EUW
ReviewerName: B. B.
Date: February 25, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best Laptop for the money
Content:
This is most certainly the best laptop I could find for the price.  My last laptop was an alienware, so this is as thin as a sheet of paper compared to that one.
I use this laptop for typing at work, watching and burning movies on DVDs and online, I stream my television from my house using a HAVA streamer, and I game on it.  I have not had any problems with anything on it yet.
To show how well it works, I have downloaded Steam (a gaming app) and have played Team Fortress 2, Boarderlans, Left 4 Dead, and Modern Warefare 1 and 2 without any problems.  MW2 is obviously not set to the highest settings, but still runs well at rather high settings.
Graphically this laptop is not goinging to replace a desktop if your editing videos or using a CAD system, but for most people, this should be all you need.
The battery life is better than any other laptop I have seen.  With the size, you would think that you could squeeze out three hours of life out of this one, but with moderate internet usage, including streaming a movie or two, and burning a DVD, I can get about 6 hours.  Turning off most settings and just watching a DVD or typing reports on battery saver, I have had it on just battery for over 11 hours.
The screen is excellent as well.  I heard complaints about viewing angle, and it is true that if you have many people looking at the monitor, it looses it's crisp picture a foot or two to either side, but I did not buy this for that purpose.  two to four people watching the screen far enough back have had no problems.
Cons:
The absolute WORST thing I can find about this laptop is that the front edge is oddly sharp.  It can get a little uncomfortable if you lean your palms on it for the mouse buttons for a prolonged time, but I use an external mouse, so I do not have that problem.
I would say that if you are considering this computer, then get it.  Windows 7 only makes it better, it may take a day to get use to it if you are moving from XP, but watch the tip videos online and learn the new features and you'll appreciate the upgrade.