ID: B002M3SOMO-R1CLVH70KHX9FP-A3RE7W4CVGQQND
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-shuffle-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A3RE7W4CVGQQND
ReviewerName: Daniel Cullen
Date: February 4, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 2.0
Title: great mp3 player ruined by terrible headphones that can't be easily changed
Content:
The iPod itself is terrific. It's tiny, sharp looking, the clip is great, it stores a ton in a little package that anyone who wants to have music for exercising will love, love, LOVE. Unfortunately, it comes with horrible headphones. The ear buds are uncomfortable and of course many people hate earbuds. The cord is too short--I'm tall, granted, but I can't hold the iPod in my hand with my arm fully extended and the headphones on. Apple moved the iPod control to the headphone wire, so you can't just say "OK, I'll buy the amazing iPod and scrap the bad headphones it comes with for good ones." Regular headphones won't work with the iPod. Further, the control mechanism which is just a few inches from your right ear is not waterproof. Got that? You wear your Shuffle headphones exercising, and you better not sweat! What genius put this package together?? So now I have gotten an adapter from a third party that fits on the iPod (some much for my sharp little green iPod) doubling its size. I can use good headphones! I can use my iPod working out and sweat on my sweat-proof headphones without causing the iPod to fail! Great, but infuriating that a product would need this fix. If Apple wants me to ever buy another product, they better come up with a design that works without forcing me to go shopping for and pay for extras just to correct design errors. NOT acceptable. So... the headphones are a dealbreaker. Knowing what I know, I do not recommend this purchase. Go find an iPod Shuffle 2nd gen or wait for Apple to listen to the raging, furious comments in the user forums. This is a major fail unless you don't mind poor-quality ear buds that can't be changed and you won't be sweating when using your Shuffle.