ID: B002C7446A-R16K80LRBLA0OV-A1B293FRQYJK6Q
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB991LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1B293FRQYJK6Q
ReviewerName: Princepessa
Date: August 7, 2009
Helpful: 11 of 13
Rating: 5.0
Title: The perfect notebook for my needs!
Content:
First of all, I want to say this is not a Mac vs. PC review. People can get a little crazy about their reviews and preferences, and I want to state that this is just that - a review. My decision to buy a Mac was a preference - there is not just one computer out there that is right for everyone. I also want to note that I upgraded to 4 GB of RAM and a 250 GB hard drive.
Pros:
Absolutely amazing battery life (when I was trying to kill it for calibration, it lasted 5.5 hours - and it wasn't calibrated yet!)
Very fast - takes less than a minute to turn on fully
Great size and weight - I don't even notice the difference in the screen from my 15" Acer, but I do notice the drastic weight difference!
Very, very well-made - when I first picked it up, it felt a tad heavier than I thought it would be for its size, but that's just because it's so solidly built. My old laptop had more flex.
Trackpad is great and easy to use
It does not get hot, unlike my old computer, which could melt chocolate and burn my legs. If I put it on a blanket, it gets a tiny bit warm (but not uncomfortable at all); if I put a magazine under it on my lap, then it stays as cool as if it weren't running.
Super quiet - I can't even tell it's running half the time.
The speakers are great, especially considering there are no speakers visible on the computer! I think the sound might come up out of the keyboard. 
"Cons":
The trackpad does take some getting used to. Not because of the "lack" of a button (the trackpad is the buttong) or the multitouch gestures, but because it's so BIG I keep accidently resting my palm on the side of it, which prevents the pointer from moving! However, I appreciate the big size and am quickly getting used to it.
No hibernate. However, you can get a widget from the Apple website for the dashboard called Deep Sleep that enables hibernate - I love it!
Can't close the lid without putting the computer to sleep - however, this is probably a good thing to protect the computer from owners like me who would endanger their computer by moving it while the hard disk is spinning.
As you can see, all my cons are not really cons - just little differences that are easily fixed or adjusted to.
A lot of people are mad about the glossy screen, but I haven't had a problem with it. Yes, there's a bit of a glare, but it's the same amount as on my TV. I can easily ignore it while watching video. I prefer it to my Acer's old traditional, matte, screen, because this one I can easily clean. It's just glass. It even comes with a cleaning cloth. 
It also comes with a really cool charger. The magnetic connector is nice - I once tripped on the cord of my old computer and it went crashing to the floor! That won't happen now. People have said the cord is too short, but the power brick comes with two attachments: a plug so you can plug the brick itself into the wall, and a cord that makes the adaptor reach farther. I like the choice, and with the extra cord, it's the exact same length as my former adaptor.
Others have complained about the edge of the computer hurting their wrists; I have had no problem with this. Granted, I have yet to use it at a desk, which might create a different angle, but the edge hasn't bothered me (and doesn't even feel sharp). I do have small hands and wrists, so that might be why I'm not bothered.
Initial start-up takes but a few minutes, and after that, it takes less than a minute for the machine to be up and running. It is NOT hard to get used to a different operating system - if you just fiddle around for a few minutes, you can find out everything you need to know. If that is the only thing keeping you from buying a Mac, no worries. You can do it.
If you think you want this computer, you will not be sorry! I did not choose it for its looks but it is pretty - I'm almost afraid to use it, it's so nice! If you are willing to sacrifice some battery life or size for price, then you can get a PC for less that will fit your needs. I was just not willing. Besides, with the recent drop in price, the student discount, the free iPod that I sold to defray the cost, and the free printer, this computer only ended up being about $100 more than the other PCs I was considering that only had 4 of the 5 things I wanted in a computer(13- or 14-inch display, under 5 pounds, fast processor, great battery life, well-made and durable).