ID: B0029U151M-R3EI5U4C7ZQ9VK-A3IRZ73JI4CJLK
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Aspire-4810TZ-4011-Timeline-14-0-Inch
ReviewerID: A3IRZ73JI4CJLK
ReviewerName: David Vergier
Date: June 28, 2009
Helpful: 23 of 28
Rating: 2.0
Title: Great hardware, but very unstable system - UPDATE!
Content:
This review relates more to the AS4810T-8480, but as it is not sold on Amazon yet, I wanted to make sure everyone is aware of the problems I am experiencing on that model, as this might impact the entire product line.
I received my new laptop 4 days ago. Overall it is great, and I'd love to post a positive review here. It looks great from the outside, the 6-8 hours of battery life is a reality (let's see how long it lasts before the  battery worns out), keyboard is nice, etc... Also agree that the built quality is not perfect, but overall it is fine.
My major concern, is the overall system stability. I am not a heavy user, mostly internet surfing.
However, in the past 4 days, I have experienced a tremendous number of crashes, maybe 2 to 3 a day, just using normal programs such as Skype, Internet Explorer 8 and MSN Live Messenger... At somepoint, the CPU goes to 100% utilization and the system becomes very slow or totally unresponsive, so I need to do a forced shut down. I thought this was due to Internet Explorer, but experienced the same with Firefox yesterday...
I just tried to install a USB AT&T 3G key, and despite a successful installation, now I am unable to log into Windows because on the log on screen my cursor and keyboards are none responsive. I have just logged a ticket with their Support Team, let's see what they come up.
I have never had some many problems with a new laptop in the past and am considering returning it for a refund.
Again, I would really like to love this laptop, I think ACER has a great product here, BUT I cannot recommended it at this point, and hope I will be able to update my recommendation very soon.
UPDATE: just over one month after receiving the laptop and as I was about to return it after ACER's customer service proved unable to provide a solution, I updated the Intel VGA driver (as many of you suggested in your comments, thanks a lot - my bad for not checking them out earlier!) and the BIOS, both being recommended on [..] and I am happy to confirm the issues have disappeared. The laptop is now fully functional, so I have decided to keep it.
In regards to other features of the computer, I would say that my main complaints are the lack of a hardware switch for the wireless, and the screen is a little too glossy for me. The speakers are a bit weak. Bluetooth could have been included but I knew about it so can't complain.
But overall I'm still happy with the Timeline, and would recommend it to anyone traveling a lot and not requiring high CPU power!