ID: B002M3SOCE-R1T9827DIXAA97-A72R26ZOM3EZ6
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-touch-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A72R26ZOM3EZ6
ReviewerName: Mary Ann Fargo "maf4898"
Date: November 27, 2009
Helpful: 38 of 39
Rating: 4.0
Title: fun and useful new addition to my technology toolbox
Content:
This is my first iPod Touch. It's the 8GB 3rd Generation model.
My thinking was, the 8GB would be fine since I intended on using this
mainly as a pocket computer for email/internet and I don't have
a huge amount of music/pics/movies that I wish to carry around
everywhere I go.  Ordered it from Amazon on Sat morning and it was
on my doorstep Monday morning!   Mad props for Amazon on that one!
The Touch is everything I expected it to be and more.   Am having a lot
of fun with it and have loaded up some family pics, video, and music
but I don't have a huge library of music so the 8 gigger should do
me fine for awhile.  
To touch base on some of the + features.  The wifi works flawlessly on mine.
I've only had this iPod for five days now but I've connected to wireless
networks other than my own and it hasn't missed a beat.
I've been using the alarm clock feature every morning since I got this thing! Love it!
The screen is amazing!  Really is crystal clear. Very impressed with that.  Loaded up a movie
and even though it's small, it is very clear and fun to watch on the iPod
when on the go.  Makes sitting in a doctors office waiting room far more tolerable. ;-)
The Touch screen is very easy to use.  I can see the keyboard being somewhat difficult for
people with big hands, but it works well for me.  
I like everything about this little device except the earphones that come with it are junk.
They hurt after just a few minutes.  I'm pretty sure that Apple could include a more
comfortable set if they wanted to.  
edit:  I had this one for 4 weeks and loaded up a bunch of games, music, photos, and 4 movies.
Began noticing low Ram and choppy play with some of my favorite games so I sold
the 8GB and bought a 32GB which is much better. Never goes low on Ram now.
For people who may not load up a bunch of stuff I'd say the 8GB is fine but if you
will be loading it up with a lot I'd say get the 32GB right out of the gate. 
I bought both of them from Amazon and couldn't have been more pleased with the transactions.
I'd strongly recommend ordering a case/cover.  There are a wide range of covers/cases.
I've got the Speck CandyShell and love it.