ID: B002OOWC06-R16HGD3E1TM8EY-A9M022DZLXYFP
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-T135-S1310RD-13-3-Inch-Ultrathin
ReviewerID: A9M022DZLXYFP
ReviewerName: Eleanor Faye Lewis "appy20"
Date: February 22, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Will update this review
Content:
I have only had this laptop a few days and will update if I discover major problems.
I decided to rate it now since so many people have trouble with the touchpad and cursor. These issues can be resolved in two ways.  I had major touchpad problems when I first used the laptop.  You have to go into Control Panel and adjust the touchpad. I adjusted it to be the most sensitive as possible.  Once that was done, it became an EXCELLENT touchpad.
The same thing for the sound card.  You have to adjust the sound or you get mediocre sound.  After adjusting it, the sound is far better than any I have had on a laptop before.
As for the screen jumping around and cursor problems.  I found that this laptop works better with Firefox as the browser (latest version).  Internet Explorer had the screen issues and some odd cursor behavior.  Firefox was perfect.  I like Firefox better anyway.
This computer does not have a DVD drive but you can pick up excellent ones from Amazon rather cheaply that rewrite and play. I added a generic DVD player and setup was a breeze. I did not have to use the driver to set it up nor did I have to find a codec online to add to it. I just plugged, did an easy setup and played.  
Pros of this computer:
Thin, lightweight.  Less than 4 lbs.
Great keyboard. 
Has 3 USB ports, 1 HDMI, a VGA port that runs a projector just fine.
Great keyboard. Nice touch and keys are not too cramped or small.
Wonderful display.  Great LED Backlighting for watching movies.  
Internet browsing is quite peppy.  I have an average connection speed at home yet this computer was considerably faster and smoother than my Dell Netbook.
When sitting directly on my lap, it does not get overly hot.  You can use this laptop without a laptop desk.
Cons:
I could have used 4 USB ports.  
I hate Norton Security and it is on it and I will have to get rid of it.  
As I have said, if I have any problems in the next few months, I will update this review.  Right now, I am thrilled with the laptop.  It is great for students, a business/travel laptop, or a budget shopper.  It packs a lot of features for the buck and all run smoothly. I love the red. I never bought a laptop according to color so it was a pleasant surprise to find one that has what I need and comes in something other than black.  
At this point, I do recommend it.