ID: B002LEVGMO-R18V1D0RIKCRMW-A2YMB5Y2E9R0KA
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Aspire-AS1410-8804-11-6-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2YMB5Y2E9R0KA
ReviewerName: Lee Hartshorn
Date: September 9, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Search no further...this is the ONE
Content:
I spent about a month researching netbooks/laptops for an affordable ultraportable machine with the best possible value.  Like many others I compared the As** EE* machines, the Del* 11z and other more expensive thin and lights.  When I ran across the specs for the 1410 I was amazed at how they could offer this level of specs for the SAME price as many netbooks??!!  I actually assumed the quality would be bad so I held off from buying until more reviews were posted.  After a few days I couldn't wait any longer (and the black was finally avaialble on JR).  I received it the NEXT day!!  I've been playing with it for a little over a week now and I am impressed.  Nothing to complain about yet except Vista.  I think the keyboard needs a little tweaking.  I personnaly like the Samsung netbook keyboards best and hope Acer can move in that direction.  But I'm adjusting to this one and using this machine more than my desktop!  So portable and the battery is great.  Why settle for a 3 cell with B/G wireless when you can have a 6 cell with N at the same price/weight/dimensions?  No brainer.  I'll update this review as I test more features, but in the meantime I would give it 6 stars if Amazon would let me.  Can't wait for W7!
UPDATE:  Finally got around to testing 720 video out of the HDMI to my LCD.  WOW!!  I actually have a WD HDTV already to watch .mkv's and other content on my tv, but I dont' think i will need it anymore.  The quality was excellent.  I did notice some skipping of frames/studder when I first tried it, but after shutting down EVERYTHING else it was great.  I can't complain considered I paid $110 for my WDTV and this product replaces it AND gives me a sweet laptop.  I have never been a fan of Acer, but consider me a convert.  I should also mention that reviews of the Dell 11z are starting to pop up...needless to say I'm happy I went with the Acer!!