ID: B002L6HDPG-R2QG0SED6HKKV-A4O4E3D3W5A8G
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Black-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A4O4E3D3W5A8G
ReviewerName: rosebudali "rosebudali"
Date: December 14, 2009
Helpful: 34 of 40
Rating: 1.0
Title: Apple is not playing nice with windows 7
Content:
I upgraded to the Nano 5 after being so very happy with the little shuffle for the past year. I gave my shuffle away and it is the biggest mistake I could have made. First off... I have a pretty new computer. One of the  problems I had with the new Nano is the Ipod doesn't like 64bit computers. I had to un-install all of my apple programs and reinstall. After that I got some music Soon after that my computer was eligible for the windows upgrade to 7 I did that and now the computer is not compatible with the ipod at all. From what I have been told it has something to do with the video camera in the ipod.The computer can not tell that it is an Ipod and the itunes site doesn't recognise it. I can not tell you how many hours I have spent trying to get this ipod to sync any of my music. I have written to Apple with no response at all. I have written to Windows 7 and they pretty much say that the problem is with Itunes. The Ipod just gives you instructions on how to turn the thing on and off with info on the web site so I just bought the "iPod: The Missing Manual" Now I have to un-install, re- install and reset everything on my computer and ipod or I might have to reset the Ipod to its factory settings.  Seems like an awful lot of work to me and the ipod still is not working.  I do think Apple should fix these problems or tell people up front that their new products do not work with PCs. To me it seems odd that little companies (compared to Apple) can make patches so their programs will work with windows 7 yet Apple can put out a new Nano and have it mess up so much.
One other gripe I have with this 5th generation Nano is that you have to charge the nano by way of computer or buy an adapter to be able to charge the Nano in a wall outlet.