ID: B002P3KMVC-R23LN31W388E0Y-A28VD6XHZ7FDPG
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30A-X5-Light-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A28VD6XHZ7FDPG
ReviewerName: J. Totherow "jtot"
Date: February 5, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 3.0
Title: Great computer, Nightmarish Customer Support
Content:
I love this computer.  It is inovative, fresh and fantastic.  I can't say enough about the computer itself.
HOWEVER
Be aware that while Asus' customer service is populated by polite, well-intentioned, kind people, their system is fundamentally flawed.  I sent my computer in for repairs to the keyboard and touchpad.  My daughter (bless her little heart) spilled a beverage on the laptop.  The customer support people were incredibly kind and helpful in assisting me in returning the notebook to them for repair.  I was ecstatic.  I called on a Monday for a status update.  I was told the computer was already on its way back to me.  Fantastic!  My ecstasy was hightened!
I received a shipment the next day.  I happily opened the box to find that they'd shipped me someone else's computer.  It wasn't even the same model!  I immediately called to get the situation straightened out.  And that's when I was plunged into a Kafka novel...
In addition to the fact that they sent me the wrong computer, the tech notes indicate that they only fixed the keyboard.  No noted fix to the touchpad.  Four days ago, I called to ask that they check with their technicians to make sure all noted issues were fixed.  Four days, many calls and many hours on hold and they STILL cannot tell me whether my computer is actually fixed.  Supervisors have promised callbacks that never come.  I'm promised that the issue has been escalated to "priority 1" status, though that apparently does little.  Today, I called AGAIN and was told that they can't get an answer to my question because the technicians are currently "on a break."  Apparently they've been on break for four straight days.  I asked to speak to a supervisor.  I was told they were all on the phone and would call me back.  Estimated callback time?  Four hours from now!
To add insult to injury, even my attempts to return the wrong laptop to them have been difficult.  I asked them to arrange with Fed Ex to pick the computer up at my house (since I live 17 miles from the nearest facility).  They said they'd do it.  Fed Ex never showed up.  They had no record of any such request from Asus.  I tried calling Fed Ex myself to schedule the pickup.  Fed Ex couldn't figure out from the info Asus provides whether to send a Ground or Express truck.  So I drove the 17 miles to the Fed Ex facility today, so the poor sap who owns the laptop I sent could get it back.
In short, they've yet to prove that they can do ANYTHING successfully.  Every interaction with them is filled with polite promises that never seem to go anywhere.  I do hope that my experience is an anomoly, but I've seen nothing to indicate that that's the case...