ID: B002XZLURC-R2MOGA0R3FS651-A2JP4PKR2GA3DE
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30Vt-X1-Light-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A2JP4PKR2GA3DE
ReviewerName: D. Seward
Date: December 8, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Sparky little machine
Content:
I'm really loving my UL30VT and I figured I'd just give my impressions of a few useful aspects to this little guy. 
Screen:  This was probably my biggest concern when I made the decision to purchase this particular machine.  I'd read a bunch of horror stories about the lousy color reproduction and viewing angles on other ASUS screens.  I have to say that it looks just fine to me.  The viewing angles are pretty constrictive, but actually are less so from side to side than vertically.  Blacks are not as rich as they could be, but it's not anything that I find bothersome.
Keyboard:  I love the chiclet style keys.  The give a very faint but satisfying click when they are pressed.  They aren't too small and having them individually raised and distinct helps me with typing.
Battery: So far so good.  I haven't tested this strenuously yet, but it charges up really fast and has lasted me most of the day with on-and-off use.  I'm using the Geforce card and would expect to get about 7 hours from a charge under normal use conditions (being: web, MS Office, and the occasional video).  EDIT:  I gave some bad info here! I actually did not have the geforce running.  With the card running and the CPU overclock enabled we're looking at about 5 hours of run time.  Not bad by any means, but definitely not the 10-12 hours rated. 
Touch pad:  The touch pad is actually pretty nice when it's working properly.  I hate touch pads for the most part, but the multi-touch functionality is helpful when no mouse is available.  I've actually noticed a small amount of weirdness, such as the pad skipping around a bit (highly intermittent). I also had the pad lock up and become unresponsive once, which was fixed by a reboot.
General build quality: Better than expected, but not without a few flaws.  The hinge on the lid is pretty isolated, and small, so I think I will baby it.  It doesn't have to be very strong because the screen is so thin and light, but it just feels a bit fragile.  The screen itself is nicely rigid given how thin it is.  The body inlay around the keys flexes when you type (I am a touch typer, I don't hit the keys hard), but you can't feel it - but you can see it flex.  The rest of the computer feels rock solid, and as I mentioned, I love the key style.
Looks:  Pure love.  I brought this to work and showed it off and everybody had a nice comment.  Well done, ASUS. EDIT: Fingerprints show up on this thing even when nobody's touching it.  This is fine on the plastic parts as they wipe right off, but on the brushed metal lid they actually don't clean up as easily.
Boot time: This little guy cranks up pretty quick.  I haven't timed it but it's definitely under a minute.  I also haven't loaded it up with utilities (I have an iPhone, which means I'll end up with a pile of appleware eventually), or most other things.  Also, to be fair, this computer comes with a bunch of pre-installed junk.  It will definitely take me some time to methodically go through it and figure out what's worth keeping and what needs to go.  So that might speed things up a little more, too.
Unwrapping:  My actual biggest complaint about this machine is that it is COVERED with stickers. Most of them came up with a little coaxing, but the glue left by the Intel sticker took about 15 minutes of elbow grease - I actually resorted to WD-40 to get the crud off the chassis.
Noise: Close to silent, with no gratuitous fan surges thus far.  The hard drive is a little chirpy, which I find annoying, but since I'm too cheap to get a solid state I think I'll live with it for a while.  Honestly the hard drive is close to silent; the only reason I notice it is because the fans in the machine are so quiet in the first place.
Temperature dispersal:  Great.  Haven't noticed heat at all.  Our other laptop is a Toshiba Satellite from about a year ago - don't remember the model - and that thing literally gets slimy from sweat.  This UL30VT is cool as a cucumber.
Smart Logon:  Finicky.  The face-recognition login is a cute touch, but so far it doesn't recognize me in different lighting conditions or slightly different viewing angles.  You can make it less sensitive but then it becomes less secure.  Who knows, as it's essentially a gimmick anyway.
Lack of optical drive:  This could be an issue if you have a bunch of programs on disc, do not have another computer to make disc images, and / or don't have an external hard drive or flash drive to transfer the images.  I guess you could just transfer things over your network, but my computer with the optical drive is limited to 700k/sec transfer speeds (old wireless, old computer).  Anyway my point is that you have to be a little bit tech savvy to circumvent this without buying an external drive, but not that much.
Bottom line: Great value. This is a great looking, high-function machine that runs smoothly out of the box.  It has a ton of functions and customizability for the tech savvy, but can be pretty well managed by your normal computer-literate Joe. It's not a good computer for someone without basic knowledge.
Hope this was helpful - just my impressions, off the cuff.  I'm happy with my purchase.