ID: B002L6HE7S-R1FAWOL2ACQGDP-ANESYIMI6KBE2
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Orange-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: ANESYIMI6KBE2
ReviewerName: Whatsit2u
Date: December 7, 2009
Helpful: 26 of 54
Rating: 1.0
Title: Nano 5th Gen. Slick on Marketing, Low On Praticality
Content:
Faced with a saturated, stagnated market of 4th-gen. Nano owners, Apple is seeking to stimulate new sales and revenue with the introduction of its new 5th-gen. model. It's an old, worn-out, yet effective marketing ploy that's been practiced by the cell-phone providers for some years: include some useless "add-on" to the base product and remarket/position it as something altogether new and improved. But the reality here is that the 5th-gen Nano is still just an MP3 player, only now it features a video-camera which, for all practical purposes, is not worth tossing out your year-old 4th-gen model (introduced only in Sept. 2008) to own! Just like cell phones with low-res cameras and vid-cams onboard -- which still essentially do just one thing, that is, allow you to make phone calls -- the 5th-gen. Nano too, despite its vid-cam add-on, still does one essential thing: it plays MP3s (and of course Apple's own proprietary DRM format). So the real question here is this: "why buy the 5th-gen. Nano with vid-cam when all you REALLY need the thing to do is to play your music files?!" The 4th-gen. Nano is barely a year old and is probably still operating just fine for most people. This purely market-driven product intro. by Apple -- which features no essential improvements in terms of "audio technology" -- is designed only to increase the company's revenues without providing consumers with anything fundamentally new and improved! As such, the 5th-gen. Nano is not a new and better mousetrap by any stretch but rather a repackaged 4th-gen. platform with a vid-cam slapped on it. So who needs it? Well, Apple for one: the company needs to keep its assembly line humming along, and its profit margin high, to keep people employed and to keep investors happy. (Can anybody spell "Capitalism?!") The bigger question for consumers, however, is "how much is enough?!" We tend to acquire new technology only because the manufacturers of all these "e-toys" have conditioned us to do so, and we think we're staying ahead of some "Gizmo Curve" with each new purchase, with many consumers averaging a new player or cell phone or other such e-product every year! It's how the consumer electronics industry counters a glutted market of essentially similar products. And as long as uninitated, unsavvy consumers keep buying into this strategy (literally), the more the manufacturers -- be it Apple or someone else -- will keep introducing essentially "same-as" products that often change in colors only or accessorization, but with no essential changes or improvement to their products' base technologies! My advice: hang on to your 4th-gen. Nano for a while longer and boycott the Nano 5. Then, watch how fast the price drops on the product as Apple backs down from its otherwise guerilla marketing tactics!