ID: B002TD6SHU-R2IO0BVZ7MOVEF-A8EDTKSPOMRWK
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-Olympus-Canister-Cleaner-S2120
ReviewerID: A8EDTKSPOMRWK
ReviewerName: hyperbolium
Date: November 16, 2009
Helpful: 90 of 96
Rating: 5.0
Title: Terrific lower-priced additions to the Miele canister vacuum line
Content:
Miele is a family-owned German manufacturer of home appliances. The company's philosophy of continuous improvement ("Immer Besser") has made them a favorite throughout the world. Their products don't have bargain prices, but provide value in high quality design and manufacturing that results in superior performance and durability. Miele was founded in 1899 and began producing vacuum cleaners in 1927; their vacuums have become favorites of professionals worldwide, including many top-end hotel staffs.
The Miele S2 line of canister vacuums is new for 2009, offering the quality and many of Miele's standard features at a lower price. There are three S2 models, all sharing the same 1200-watt base vacuum. The canister has six power settings and a standard air filter that catches 94% of particles down to 0.3 microns. The Olympus model is the lowest priced of the three, and features a floor/carpet combo head (SBD350-3), non-electric hose and a telescoping wand. The Delphi model substitutes a power head (SEB217-3), electric hose (SES116) and electric telescoping wand (SET220). The Titan model retains the power components of the Delphi and adds a parquet floor brush (SBB-3) and active HEPA filter.
Note that all three models can support the power hose and brush, but only the Delphi and Titan include it as part of the package. Similarly, all three models support the active HEPA filter, but only the Titan includes it in its package. If you don't currently need a power head you can buy the Olympus and add the power components later; you'll pay more in the end, but you won't have to buy power components now that you may not need for a few years. The non-electric combo head works well on smooth flooring, is usable on short-pile carpet, and is difficult to use on deeper-pile carpet.
Like all Miele vacuum cleaners, the S2 is well designed and manufactured in Germany. The vacuum has a range of 29.5 feet from the end of the self-retracting power cord to the tip of the brush. The unit is light (under 10 lbs), nicely balanced and moves easily in any direction on its casters. The top-exhaust design allows you to vacuum easily with the canister standing up, such as on steps. The motor is surprisingly quiet, particularly at the lower power levels. The six power levels allow you to switch from floors and carpets to shelves and tabletops without accidentally grabbing objects or papers instead of dirt or dust.
The S2 cleans very well and is a pleasure to use. The base has notches in which the hose can be parked, one for when the base is on its wheels, one for when the base is standing. This is a great touch, useful for temporarily standing the hose while you move a piece of furniture, and helpful for storing the vacuum in a closet without breaking down the hose and wand. Perhaps the only weakness of the S2 is the "varioclip" for tool storage, which rides somewhat uncomfortably on the hose rather than more naturally on the base. Changing the filter and bag are each a snap, and an indicator tells you when the bag is full.
Finally, what compromises does the S2 line make from the more expensive S4 and S5 lines? The most obvious changes are to external components: a few parts, such as the bumper strip that surrounds the canister, are made from hard plastic rather than softer rubber. The operating radius is a few feet shorter (due to a shorter power cord), and the accessory brushes use some lower-cost materials (nylon versus natural bristle brush, plastic instead of metal). Inside, the S2 canister uses Miele's "CleanAir System" construction, while the S4 and S5 canister use its "Sealed System." Miele doesn't offer a detailed comparison of the two, but one might assume the latter system provides an extra measure of dust capture that may be more appropriate for those with allergic sensitivities.
The changes made to lower the price of the S2 line will make small differences in daily use, but shouldn't compromise the vacuum's core ability to clean. Those who are especially sensitive to dust should consider the HEPA-equipped Titan model, or stepping up to the S4 or S5; those with less stringent needs will find the S2 a terrific entry point to the Miele line of high quality vacuums. If budget is no issue, look at the S5 line, but if value-per-dollar is a major consideration, the S2 line will bring you Miele's engineering and manufacturing prowess at a more affordable price. [©2009 hyperbolium dot com]