ID: B0029ZA51I-R3OC17S24BJPGT-A2BBBID6B14U9H
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV4-1430US-14-1-Inch-Entertainment-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2BBBID6B14U9H
ReviewerName: Lola
Date: August 26, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 2.0
Title: Bad Omen!
Content:
Well, how to start....
The specs on this quaint little laptop are pretty nice for the price. I've never owned an HP and I was debating between the DV4-1430US and the Toshiba Satellite A505-6973. Both had similar specs, the Toshiba with a bigger hard drive. But I'm a sucker for the 14" laptops for their mobility. I must say that I didn't actually purchase the HP from Amazon. I got it from another retailer because of a lower sale price. So, out of the box, this is an attractive little unit. Light weight yet sturdy. Basic functions are quick. I'd heard that HPs ran a bit hot and that this model was not an exception. But I didn't find it to run quite as hot as my previous laptop that is only a year old (gave it to my nephew - that's why I bought this one). Anyway, for the basics: internet, writing papers, doing some programming -  it was fine. 
Here's where the review goes downhill and the reason for only 2 stars.
Never got a chance to really test the "entertainment value" of the DV4-1430US. My keyboard stopped working. Wouldn't respond to anything. Luckily, I was within the time frame to return it to the store and did so immediately. Exchanged it for another - same model. By the second day of having the new one, definitely noticed that the hard drive was running very loud. I'm an IT Systems technician for a large company and while some people may not really notice the loud hard drive, I recognized it right away as something that would wreak havoc very soon. Because I have another week to return it to the store, I've hung onto it to get a chance to "window" shop for another because I'm definitely not returning it for the same model. Well, guess what....? Blue Screen of Death tonight. So, I'm pretty much guessing that's my queue to figuring out whether an HP is right for me. Too bad. They have some nice looking laptops. 
Will probably go with the Toshiba. Amazon still has it for a nice price and I'm a big Toshiba fan. Guess I should learn to stick with what I know works.