ID: B002ONCC98-R15G1VFXI2HN9Z-A2YW4Q3XP7DY3R
Category: Laptops
Product: G71-340US-17-3-Inch-Black-Silver-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2YW4Q3XP7DY3R
ReviewerName: S. Whatley
Date: January 12, 2010
Helpful: 11 of 13
Rating: 5.0
Title: I Love This HP G71 340US
Content:
I bought this laptop from a famous auction web site as a Christmas gift to myself.  For seven years, I owned a 1450 Solo Gateway Laptop.  From day one I never really liked the PC.  The fan was loud and the only hardware you could upgrade were the hard drive and memory.  So, I was really nervous about buying a new PC. 
This HP is soooooooo much better than the Gateway I previously owned.  The screen is much nicer, sleeker, prettier, brighter and the wide screen affect is AWESOME.   With the new Windows 7 it doesn't take long for the PC to load up and shut down.  I love the number keypad to the right.  It's a benefit that keeps me from mistakenly hitting the "Function keys". There's a button to cut off/on the touch pad. This feature is wonderful because when typing, your wrist may get tired and you may mistakenly hit the touchpad and mess up what you typed.
Lately, I've heard [or read] that the speakers were not really that strong.  Well, this IS a laptop, so if you're expecting "theatre sound" then, buy a home theatre system.  Secondly, I had the volume turned up as high as it could be and I heard my CD from my PC all the way in the kitchen from my bedroom.  The fan and the entire PC is quiet.  You barely notice that the fan is even on.  There's NO noise when turning on the PC. I mainly use this PC at home, so I can't comment on the life of the battery, because it's really not of a major importance. 
The 17.3'' wide screen, mic AND webcam, Lightscribe technology for DVD/CD burning........etc for less than $700.00 is a REALLY great deal!!!!! I'm VERY happy with it so far.  To be truthful, I've had it for only a week, but based on the looks of things I'm hoping to be really happy with this PC a very long time.
There are two gripes that I DO have with this PC:  1.  The USB ports are on both sides of the PC rather than the back.  This causes cords to be tangled up and take up space on my desk.  The second gripe I have is this PC didn't come with any CD software that was pre-loaded on the PC.  It also didn't come with any restore discs.  You will be given an option to make your own, or purchase them. 
The second gripe is bothersome to me, because down the line one WILL need to reload their PC for many different reasons and should ALWAYS have a back up.  But so far so GOOOOOOOOOOOOOOD!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!