ID: B002PAQXCM-RH19D7BOJTS3N-A24HWYKK1TFLFO
Category: Laptops
Product: N81Vp-D2-14-Inch-Versatile-Entertainment-Windows
ReviewerID: A24HWYKK1TFLFO
ReviewerName: E. Rodriguez
Date: December 30, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Superb Quality, Best Bang for the Buck
Content:
It's amazing how people can be so picky. First of all there's no such thing as the perfect laptop/notebook but to me this comes pretty damn close. I fully researched my options and came to the conclusion that this laptop was the most bang for the buck you can buy in this size range. It's even more powerful than some 15/16 inchers out there plus a lot less expensive. I didn't want anything too large or bulky that would divert from the original concept of having something portable but I still didn't want anything too small that would lack power and performance. To me the ASUS N81VP-D2 is the best combination of performance, power and size. The 16:9 LED screen is crisp and vivid with superb HD quality. The key board is nice and responsive and unlike the other review I didn't experience anything flimsy about it what so ever although it would of been a huge plus having a backlit keyboard but no biggie I can live without it. The 320gb 7200rpm drive is nice to have because it boots up pretty damn quick and there's plenty of storage to go around for the average end user. The trackpad is not the worst yet not the best but it's manageable and not frustrating like others say. I personally disable it and just use a wireless mouse. The battery life is the only minor draw back I can think of but what can you expect when you practically have all the bells and whistles under the hood. Windows experience is as follows: Processor 6.4, Memory 6.4, Graphics 6.7, Gaming Graphics 6.7, Primary Hard Disk 5.9 and that's just out of the box. If you're still having second thoughts, don't. You wont be disappointed by the value and quality you will receive. Try and find a laptop with similar features and configuration as this one and you'll see you can't because first of all the video card on this one is the best you can get in a 14 incher to date and second you get two years global warranty, one year accidental or two if you register your laptop within 30 days of purchase(no brainer) all included when others charge you an arm and a leg for that. Plus ASUS was ranked first in quality by the wall street journal. Luckily I purchased the laptop at the right moment and got it for only 695 with  applicable offers and rebate, free two day shipping and another big plus---not  a dime of taxes! Good job amazon and please stay out of california so that we can continue enjoying tax free shopping since we're already taxed enough