ID: B002L6HDSI-R1KAJIJDJAUX49-A15H1QCX5KWWUF
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A15H1QCX5KWWUF
ReviewerName: Kitty Katty "RomCom fan"
Date: March 1, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: AN AMAZING THING!! with a few pardonable flaws
Content:
I bought my green iPod Nano 5G as soon as it was out. Around September 2009. I had never had an iPod before that, so this purchase was probably my first "expensive" investment into a fantastic media-player from Apple.
Initially, I planned on buying the identical model, just 4G -- but looking back, I am glad I chose this one! So many things are fascinating about it, that I am sometimes astonished about how man's technology has developed. This model has extra: radio, pedometer, Live Pause, VIDEO CAMERA!!
And I must say, (well, before buying the iPod, I - just like you - looked at many reviews) I saw that many people said the quality of the video camera wasn't so impressive, but I find this function absolutely amazing!! Something I thought I was going to use was the Live-Pause (=if you're listening to the radio, you can record it and just rewind back to the position), the pedometer and a couple other functions, i.a. "Genius" (for which you have to state you're credit card details in iTunes - which I don't desire to do)... but I don't really see these functions as extremely useful.
At the beginning I thought the rotating screen was great, but often lying on my side listening to music, it does get tiring if it constantly turns.
But looking at photos is such a pleasure: it turns the picture automatically, that you don't constantly need to turn your head. It has such amazing facilities, as well as watching films. Although the screen is relatively small (compared to an LCD TV), if you're watching by yourself, it's great fun and light-weighted.
The only thing I criticise about this iPod (actually iPod generally): the charge is very soon empty - which is often annoying.
One thing I would advise a new-buyer is to be careful nothing scratches. I got an Apple Sock for X-Mas (i.e. 3 months later) and by that time there was already a teeny scratch on the screen and on the back. As for the earphones: make sure to prevent the grey rubber lining from going off (fyi: a replacement costs around 40 bucks). But apparently those Crystal Shells are not very useful (they increase the scratching if something gets under it) and must be removed every time it is put on a dock station.
And as a sixteen year-old I have had a fair bit of experience with music-players, CD-players, MP3-player, mobile phones etc. and must say this has been my best and most contented purchase.
So, if you chose to buy one -- and I definitely recommend it --, have loads of fun with it (and remember what I said about the scratching ;)...)