ID: B002ONCD4M-R3H7R5GAY61ZS4-A2LOCNLCDMUKS0
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV6-1350US-15-6-Inch-Espresso-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2LOCNLCDMUKS0
ReviewerName: Joe from LA
Date: January 2, 2010
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: It's all about the specs
Content:
To say that shopping for a laptop is a daunting experience nowadays is an understatement.  Pick the top four or so manufacturers and start looking at model and configuration options and you will soon be reaching for your favorite calming beverage.  The reviews of the dv6-1350us were particularly helpful to me in that they helped focus my search on the features that were important to me: processor, memory, keyboard, DVD drive, wireless features, battery, and weight.  The dv6-1350 is a larger laptop and consequently cannot be placed in the class of the highly portable (lightweight) models that are now on the market.  However, its 4 GB of memory, full-sized keyboard (number pad), optical drive, 1000BGN wireless, and 12-cell battery (HP is selling them discounted for about $99 today)make this a full-featured and fast computer. It can also be connected to your HDTV for watching Netflix movies, and has a built-in web cam and recorder. With the recent drop in price and $50 rebate, we are talking about a significant laptop for under $600.  I couldn't find anything close in terms of features and price.  I have had the computer for about a week now, and I am extremely happy with it.  It is every bit as fast and user-friendly as the Dell desktop that I purchased about 6 months ago.  You won't find any computer that does not have its detractors. However, so far, except for the fact that this is not as light a laptop as others on the market, I have nothing negative to say.  Win 7 is a great operating system, and my one call to HP tech support was a good experience, some wait time excepted.  That should surprise no one.  If the specs and features that I have noted are important to you, you will be happy with this laptop.