ID: B002PY7OPI-R8NZNVM1BPWIX-A2NK95BIGO8BM6
Category: Laptops
Product: Dell-Inspiron-14-Inch-Laptop-Cherry
ReviewerID: A2NK95BIGO8BM6
ReviewerName: Stargzn
Date: March 14, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 2.0
Title: Not having much luck, unfortunately
Content:
I am experiencing severe hardware issues. In the past week, every time I turn it on I have to select 'start windows normally'. On top of that, my touchpad is SUPER buggy and many times bounces all over the page or goes from page to page to page (or pictures...wow, they fly by). The off-center touchpad is just wrong! After three weeks, my fingers still have to search for the keys, but beginning to get used to the arrangement. 
I've had Dell laptops for five years and I think this one is just a lemon in the hardware department. When I originally decided not to keep, about a week ago, I was returning for refund, but have changed my mind, and would like to try another because overall I like this package immensely. One thing I do miss tremendously though is the lighted displays for wi-fi, etc and the caps on in the toolbar. I don't want a display popping up every time I turn caps on or off, but there has to be a better way. Half the time, I'm typing away and don't realize the caps are on (I'm a typist, so not always looking directly at the screen when typing). Frustrating, especially when typing passwords and you don't know caps are on or off until it is not accepted! Being a typist, this super flat keyboard is not the greatest, but could be worse. One thing I absolutely love is the delete key on the end. After only about a day, I was on my E1505, and already was hitting the end of that row for delete! Amazing. It just makes sense. Thanks Dell. The battery life is OUTSTANDING! First day it lasted almost 9 hours. No lie. But then I changed my power settings and it typically now get around five. I'm a happy camper in that department. And the screen is nice and bright, but when I plug it in, I have to put on sunglasses. lol!
As someone else mentioned, it is inconvenient to have the power cord on the right. I often use a wireless keyboard and mouse, and the cord impairs logical mousing movements. Because of the E1505 having so many issues with power cords fraying (mine included) I'm sure that contributed to this decision, but just wish it were on the left. Of course, this minute I'm happily cord free, so that problem is temporarily eliminated. (Maybe it should be advertised as a 'lefty's laptop. Ha!)
Uhmmm. I think that's it. Love the size, weight and look of this Dell. Just wish it wasn't buggy. Hope to add a five star review for the next one (or at least four, since some of the issues I have are built-in features).