ID: B002OEBTCS-R36ZQHQXMQ4NQG-A1C0SN6KGKO11Q
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-K-x-2-7-inch-18-55mm-55-300mm
ReviewerID: A1C0SN6KGKO11Q
ReviewerName: chesterh
Date: February 16, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Thrilled
Content:
I am absolutely thrilled with this package. At current pricing, I am convinced it is the best deal out there for an entry-level DSLR - and it has more features than most people could possibly use in a lifetime. The addition of the 55-300mm lens over a base package adds a whole dimension of flexibility and is well worth the premium. 
Beginning with Consumer Reports and their "Best Buy" rating, I read every review and bit of information I could find on the K-x. The praise is universal.
Coming from a Canon PowerShot A530, the difference is utterly night and day. Images are stunning, and the responsiveness of the camera makes it possible to get shots that are simply unattainable with a point and shoot. Most of my shooting involves action (dog agility and sledding, sports, etc.). In the time it took the Canon to power up and shoot 1 picture, the K-x can power up, meter, focus, and shoot 15 or 20. 
Hand held pictures taken in a dimly lit banquet hall without using the flash (ISO 6400) were a big surprise - gorgeous! 
I think the ability to use any type of AA battery is a huge plus. After more than 1200 shots, I am still milking the supplied set of lithium AAs, but knowing I can get a few hundred shots from standard alkalines in a pinch is reassuring.
It's a stretch to find something to complain about, but I'll try. The marketing presentation on the Pentax web site clearly states that this camera has a "time-lapse" shooting mode. In fact, it does not. I don't really lament this omission, but the feature might well be added in a future firmware update. Video capability was not a factor in my choice, and given its rather severe limitations, I will reserve it for occasional use. The practical melding of DSLR and HD video cameras is still several product generations in the future for all manufacturers. 
Go for it!
p.s. - Purchased from Amazon, and it is certainly not a "gray market" item as suggested by another reviewer.