ID: B002NEGTU6-R3NS7WEF7BZICF-A2TPZS7J2HN4RQ
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-EOS-7D-28-135mm-Standard
ReviewerID: A2TPZS7J2HN4RQ
ReviewerName: Allan Gobin
Date: October 19, 2009
Helpful: 17 of 41
Rating: 5.0
Title: Its the man behind the camera that matters :)
Content:
I was thinking of buying a 7D so I did my usually comparison between all the Canon cameras
up to the latest models and here is what I found...
 
Unless you are going to make very large prints (above 11x14) then the extra resolution doesn't matter.
What I didn't expect though was just how close the 20D still is to these cameras.
The only one that really stood out, interestingly enough, was the original 5D.  The 5D is the sharpest
camera Canon has made to date.  (The original 5D looks better than anything Canon has to date.)
 
The bottom line when it comes to pure image quality, the lens make a much bigger difference.
Using the same lens the 20D can be made to look almost exactly like the 7D with a little post processing.
 
So what would I gain by buying a 7D...
 
1. A bigger better LCD screen.
2. Better auto focus.
3. Video.
 
Image quality now is more a function of taking a good photo to begin with and then processing it properly
rather than the camera itself.  Canon has not been able to make any significant improvements from the 20D
in this regard so far...
IF you are really serious about taking great photographs get a used 20D or 40D and some good lens
then focus on taking photographs instead of all of this technical BS ;)
PS This review was based on a friend's 7D and as you will note I did give it 5 stars.
   There are two types of photographers I have come to find.  Those that focus on the means and those
   that focus on results. I use to be one of the former... Its far easier to buy expensive equipment than
   to learn how to really use it.  This camera is more camera than 90% of people will ever need, including myself.
   But hey, if you have the money...knock yourself out.  But get some good glass too, I can highly recommend
   the 17-55 f2.8 lens.