ID: B0029NYI4K-R3C41E45AORGZX-A2HL5Y0ZSYNBUP
Category: MP3Players
Product: Sony-Walkman-Video-Player-Display
ReviewerID: A2HL5Y0ZSYNBUP
ReviewerName: Chris24
Date: December 6, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 18
Rating: 1.0
Title: Be forewarned about this item!!!
Content:
I could never have imagined how BAD this product could be.  I read reviews, but I suspect other reviewers were just downloading music and videos and playing them back.  Trying to use the versatile features advertised for this product leads to total disappointment.
As a Slacker device, it SUCKS!  THREE stations only?  Holy stars, my low-end portable Slacker device, the one that's full of bugs, carries 15 stations.  Better still it works as long as I avoid using certain features, and it maintains its Wi-Fi connection.  Read on.
This Sony device cannot seem to hold a Wi-Fi connection.  As such, it can never download my three Slacker stations anyway.
The web browser is even worse.  My cell phone is better, and my cell phone sucks.
Text entry on this device is cumbersome and slow.  Again, my low-end cell phone is better.
I am not normally negative about things, but I find myself unable to give this product the totally scathing review it deserves.  Don't waste your money.  Even an iPod touch, with all its silly restrictions, is better than this.  If you want something much much better, get any $9.95 MP3 player that syncs with Windows Media Player.  The very worst of all the players I have is better than this one.
I should have been suspicious when I couldn't find this product in any local stores.  Why wouldn't they carry it if it were as good as advertised?  The answer to the question makes me feel like a fool for having bought it.  I'm guessing anyone in the electronics area at Best Buy could have warned me about it.
I have no idea whether Amazon is going to give me my money back.  After all, the product is opened.  Nevertheless, I am going to return it to them.  I wasted money.  Why should I add to that insult a waste of perfectly good shelf space in one of my closets?