ID: B002JCSV5I-RAI6RAWXRJKRD-A19PN15YXJQFAK
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D3000-Digital-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G
ReviewerID: A19PN15YXJQFAK
ReviewerName: R. Milliken "Rev Ralph"
Date: November 10, 2009
Helpful: 9 of 11
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great bang for your buck!!
Content:
I love this camera I really do! I got it a week ago and have already taken almost 1000 pictures (but thats no problem with my 4 gb extreme 3 memory card!) What can I say! I love photography!! I had a canon powershot sd750 point and shoot and let me tell you that camera was no wimp. It gave me stunning shots while retaining lightness and compactness. But it was starting to limit me a bit. Like all the action shots I would take would come out blurry and outdoor shots of animals and such were no better. So I read up on a lot of dslr's for a long time and finally decided on this one. The day I got it I shot 200 shots. It was ready to use right out of the box! I had recently purchased a 4gb extreme 3 memory card  and that went immeadiately into my camera. I absolutely love this camera. I didn't realize how badly I had been needing a camera like this!! There is a drawback though! I dont know if it is a defect on mine or not but it will only shoot four frames in a burst and then it slows down to one frame per second and at times slower than that. I dont know quite what to do but this is not to much of a drawback! I can get great action shots still with no problem! Anyway I debated a long time whether to get the canon rebel xs or this but this ultimately looked like a better camera. I would highly reccomend it for its ease of use and user friendliness. If your looking for a step up form a point and shoot this is the camera for you! But if you have a d40 or a d60 I would reccomend the d90 as an update for this camera! The d90 is $1100 but is worth every penny! P.S. I will update this review if I find out why it will only shoot four frames in a burst. Edit...
If you have active d lighting on it will slow down how fast your camera processes pictures. If you turn it off you can shoot as many as you want.