ID: B002NEGTU6-R1GMLWW9597J7-APHJP0HM726P6
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-EOS-7D-28-135mm-Standard
ReviewerID: APHJP0HM726P6
ReviewerName: Matt @ Red Six "&#34;Do not dare not to dare....
Date: April 2, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Management of Expectations
Content:
First, for a living I produce and edit commercials for television and shoot wedding photography on the side. So I have some experience with cameras, lenses, and editing software.
We got this lens because we wanted a new camera to make commercials with. We wanted to shoot in HD (the 1080 kind, not the 720), but we didn't want a $30,000 rig - no way I could convince the big boss to do that since making commercials is a secondary, even tertiary, function of the company I work for. 
For a cinematic look (the 1.6x crop factor helps with depth of field) we chose the 7D. For what we wanted, and expected, and what we got, I rate the camera 5 stars. But that's because I also know the limitations of the camera. You won't take this camera and treat it like it's a prosumer or professional HD videocamera that you would take if you where the videographer for COPS. You won't take this to capture video on a running, fast-paced, nighttime fugitive hunt. In low light settings, or settings where you can't control the light, you will get motion blur. In high lighted areas, if you don't have a rig setup with an eye piece half the time you won't be able to see the screen with enough clarity to know if you're subject is in focus or not (if you're using a very slim depth of field, like on a f2.8 or faster lens).
Obviously, for about the same price, we could have gotten a prosumer or low, low professional grade HD videocamera that would have had better autofocus, less motion blur on action, etc. But the trade off on that is lower low-light capacity for shooting, and lower contrast levels.
I recommend this camera if you want to take HD video and make a basket of apples look sexy. If said apples grew legs, started running, and you had to run with them and capture everything on video, I'm not sure of this would be the solution for you - even with a steadycam. But maybe. 
We're still working the kinks out, but we love it so far.