ID: B002TG3ZYQ-R2YI57EKMKPWKE-A2B5TZE0HXD83V
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-EOS-1D-Mark-IV
ReviewerID: A2B5TZE0HXD83V
ReviewerName: Terry L. Manier Jr. "TerryM"
Date: April 21, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 3
Rating: 3.0
Title: Focus or not to Focus
Content:
I purchased the Canon 1D Mark IV from Adorama about a month ago. My main camera at the time was/is mark IIN and a 5d. When I got the camera I was a little shocked that it feels heavy like my Mark IIN but not a biggy. I got busy learning the new camera because I had a travel gig the following week. Loved everything about the camera. It became super simple to use. Loved that the ISO was on the right side and separate from the other operation buttons. (I flip through ISO often on editorial shoots). SUPER SUPER great! BUT THEN... HA hA... there is always a 'but then'. THE FOCUS POINTS. AF POINTS... (which I use a lot) SUCK!... CAN I SAY THAT??! THEY SUCK.!! Here's the deal. Canon brags about the 45 AF points. I think I read 'crosshairs' somewhere... which makes you think if you have that little red puppy on something that's where your lens is going to focus.... Not so. I have found that (even on a tripod) that you better watch out where you think you might focus. I constantly move the AF point around and shoot... (reframing and following my subject) the thing is Canon allows you to preview where your AF point was when the picture was taken and I have found it to be highly... yes 'highly inaccurate' well, I guess I shouldn't say highly... how about 10 percent of the time. If your a pro editorial photographer... that's 9% to many. ( Yes I tried different lenses and same results). I returned that body and Adorama sent me another one. We'll see what happens.  Here's another thing. I used to hand hold and shoot all the time at 1/60, 1/50 and sometimes 1/40 of a second. Not with this camera. I'm not sure why but you (I) can not hand hold this camera and shoot low light, slow shutter speeds, with the accuracy of the predecessors to this camera. My D60 used to get the best slow shutter speed pics... ALSO, I don't care what anyone says... INCLUDING CANON... It doesn't matter what ISO your on if you get so much NOISE that its unable to be used in print. Everything I shoot goes into a pub. I will not shoot over 6400 in 'warm' environments with this camera. Canon.. you can say the Camera will shoot at 600,000 ISO and it won't make a difference if the noise is so bad. Lastly, I'm a STILL photographer. I don't want to shoot VIDEO. CANON... please make a camera THAT IS JUST AN INCREDIBLE STILL CAMERA and leave all the video crap off. PLEASE!!!!