ID: B002ONCBD0-RYSZQ97S8ED6D-A2EA6S68ZGYPLG
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV7-3080US-17-3-Inch-Espresso-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2EA6S68ZGYPLG
ReviewerName: Ivan Blomberg
Date: January 3, 2010
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Fast Laptop!
Content:
I have owened this laptop for over a month now. Its extremely quick and never lags no matter what I have open. I can burn a dvd, download a large file, and play a game all at the same time. It will run crysis well at full resolution as well as modern warfare 2. I have read bad revews about the display and honestly its not bad. I think it may be slightly different from the dells because of the type of glossy film they use. Remember this is susposed to be an entertainment pc and for that it is AWSOME. I can watch movies via hdmi in full 1080, just simply plug it in and your ready to go. Battery life is decent for a computer with a quad core. Intel uses turbo boost and I think this helps to keep power down a bit. The touch controls at the top of the keyboard work great and I like them alot. Remember this is a quad core 1.6ghz but with turbo boost it will go up to 2.8ghz. Shows up as 8 cores total. Very efficient processor. Hp's bloatware is really not that bad either. Audio is quite good. The speakers on this laptop sound great and get decent volume as well. Wireless n works great and is very fast. Fan is fairly quiet and it runs very cool.... if its on ur lap it will run hotter but still much cooler then many dual core laptops i have used. Keyboard has a great feel and is quiet. Mouse pad buttons feel great and people seem to complain about the glossy finish on the pad but i think it feels good and works well. The scroll bar on the right of the mousepad also works awsome. Also big plus this has a second drive bay so you could add a solid state boot drive or a standard drive for storage if you like. I think you have to buy a hard drive cradle or something but its a great added bonus. Also this fits well in the Wenger, SwissGear 17 inch back pack.  
A few things i dont like is that the power brick is really large, wish it had a lit keybord although this is really not a problem and the screen is really bright so its easy to see the keys plus it uses slightly less power without it. Glossy finish attracts finger prints like crazy but its still pretty. Hp's media smart software could use some work , it takes a long time to open and too much bling just for browsing photos. I made windows picture viewer my default viewer to solve this. I do wish it was full 1080 but its close and i dont think its a big enough difference to notice... blue ray movies still look great!. ... all in all great computer ... makes a great desktop replacement. All the negatives i stated are minor. I very much recommend this laptop. The prices are dropping as well and its just becoming more affordable.