ID: B002KKCQMS-R1MXFK8AQNIQP-A395X91LZH9YOK
Category: Laptops
Product: MSI-X600-031US-Slim-15-6-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A395X91LZH9YOK
ReviewerName: Reginald Garrett
Date: March 9, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Excellent Ultra Portable Notebook
Content:
After much debate and hand wringing about what my next laptop should be, I decided to review actual tasks that I would be performing.  These include; writing papers, playing moderately graphical intensive online games i.e. Second Life, VirtualBox virtual machine, internet surfing, and of course, enjoying my legally obtained music, movies, and pictures.  I require a larger screen with great graphical capability, easy portability and decent processing power.  These requirements led to considering the Apple MacBook series.  The AIR, while powerful, portable and extremely sexy, was too lacking in external ports to be practical.  The other MacBook models were far too expen$ive.  The Alienware models I considered were certainly powerful enough for all of my activities, but they were super heavy and super expen$ive as well.  I needed to find a middle ground.  
Enter the MSI x600.  
While I had not really heard of this brand outside of the motherboard realm I performed my due diligence.  The terrific options, reasonable price, and super portability allow me to comfortably perform ALL of the above tasks and then some.  This feat would not be possible at all on any netbook.  And the powerful desktop replacements would not be practical since I would need to live under a bridge in order to afford one.
The x600 is not all wine and roses however, in that there are odd quirks that still baffle me after six months of blissful Human/ Computer compatibility.  
These include: 
1.  The oddly placed delete key (Where's Waldo).  Why is it mixed in with the others?  It is used so often that it should be on a corner of the board for easy access.  
2. There are two "pipe" keys for some reason.  One of which takes away precious real estate from the space bar.
3.  The body feels a bit flimsy while open but I suppose that is the reality of having a super thin notebook that is not made of one solid piece of aluminum (thanks for the vision Apple).  
Overall I am very happy with this model of computer and see us happy for a long time (in computer time anyway).  When I meet someone with a thing that I want, I ask them if they would they buy it again.  If they say yes then that is the ultimate endorsement.  Thus, I would certainly purchase this again under similar circumstances.  It is a nice combination of features versus portability at a great price.
Cheers,
Reg