ID: B0029ZA5WW-R26ZW2U35S91M5-A22X8GMQ23HLIC
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV7-2170US-17-3-Inch-Entertainment-Laptop
ReviewerID: A22X8GMQ23HLIC
ReviewerName: A. Taylor
Date: April 17, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Does it all, and well.
Content:
I've had this laptop since September of '09, and I couldn't be happier.  It's quick, solid, roomy, and it even looks pretty slick.  I haven't had a single problem with it since I bought it.  The screen is extra bright and crisp, it plays any game you might want to play on it pretty well.  Of course some $4000 Alienware rig will blow it away on benchmarks, but it'll play anything you want it to and make it look pretty good.
My favorite feature on it, though, is the built in HDMI port.  I can plug it into my stereo receiver and get 5.1 surround sound and watch streaming vids or play games on my 52" LCD.
My last three laptops have been HP.  I had a similar laptop to this one before I made this purchase, so I have a pretty good idea of what they've improved upon.  First, it seems quite a bit lighter.  If you carry it around a lot, you'll appreciate this.  Second, it runs much cooler than the previous gen.  My last one, although being called a LAPtop, was too hot to keep on your lap for any extended period of time, had heat issues, and required an external cooler.  Ergonomically, they've moved a few things around, making it easier to use (I'm specifically referring to moving the optical drive toward the front of the machine).  They removed the latch on the front that snapped shut when it was closed, because it was totally unnecessary.  Little things like that.
Some drawbacks:  I wish the keys were backlit.  I REALLY REALLY do.  It's hard to see what you're typing if you're in a dark room.  Also, I don't like the scroll bar on the touch pad.  Half the time it doesn't work.  I just use a regular mouse.
Overall, this is a very good laptop, and I would recommend it to anyone looking for something in this price range.  You really get a lot of bang for your buck.