ID: B002IKLJUK-R1AXDS1GQ718D1-A221UM0VR9L7CY
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Panasonic-DMC-GF1-Four-Thirds-Interchangeable-Digital
ReviewerID: A221UM0VR9L7CY
ReviewerName: G. Huffman
Date: January 16, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Perfect For Moving Up From A Compact
Content:
I am by no means an advanced photographer (intermediate at best), but ready to move up from a pocket camera. The GF1 is an excellent entry point into the kit camera range.  There are plenty of ways to control a photo ... manual shutter, aperture, focus and ISO settings, along with a healthy variety of filters. Plus plenty of auto settings. With its large sensor (compared to any compact), photos without a flash are amazing in light conditions which used to be hopeless for me. Indoor photos without flash seem to come out brighter than what I see with my eyes. Right after I received this camera a couple weeks ago, I field-tested it on a business trip to Tampa and was very pleased. I've uploaded a few of those "customer images" to Amazon that were taken in several challenging lighting conditions. Judge for yourself.
I've only shot 2 video clips so far but don't really have an opinion about quality yet, although it's pretty easy to use.
Build quality is first class. Rock solid with controls and fittings that feel like they should last forever.
I bought the kit with the 14-45mm lens which has a very smooth zoom but seems especially large on its body. I tested the lens with its Optical Image Stabilization switched off, and it does make a noticeable difference.  Sometime this year, I'm going to get the 20mm pancake lens that the critics are raving about. Hopefully by then, I'll have mastered how to choose the setting or combo for each effect I want. I'm really looking forward to learning how to take much better photos, and I now know for sure that this camera will teach me.
The most negative thing that I can say about the GF1 is its price. Fortunately, I managed to get it for "only" $849 from a very reliable retailer on Amazon the day after Christmas.  That deal seems to be long gone.  But it's still an excellent camera for anyone who wants to take their photo skills to the next level beyond point-and-shoot.