ID: B002OEBTC8-R23SF1GVD2S1SW-AOQJ886QKHG5P
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-K-x-2-7-inch-18-55mm-Black
ReviewerID: AOQJ886QKHG5P
ReviewerName: MattB
Date: January 7, 2010
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Really nice
Content:
This camera is the best value in DSLRs on the market today. 
I got it to replace an Olympus e-510 which is a fine camera, but the K-x blows it away.
My favorite features are the high ISO performance which allows for shooting without a flash in lower light, and using faster shutter speeds with the relatively slow kit lens, the quick auto focus, and it's small size and low weight. 
I like to get out into the wilderness on my skis and bike but love to bring a good SLR with me. The K-x now makes that easier than ever. Also, being compatible with every Pentax lens made in the last 50 years is a huge plus. I picked up an inexpensive 50mm f1.7 prime on eBay and have been having fun shooting with that too. Much sharper (when stopped down) and faster (when opened up) than the kit lens which is ok but not fantastic. 
Shooting around the house without having the use a flash is also a huge advantage. The shots just look more natural and when shooting it's less intrusive for my subjects to not have the flash going off all the time. 
The two things I would add to this would be the weather seals found in the  higher Pentax models and AF illumination (the rod spot that tells you what point is focused). 
I haven't had any problems due to lack of seals yet, but the peace of mind would be nice while taking it out into the elements. 
Video is ok but not great. That's a nice feature that I probably will not use a whole lot but it's nice to know I have the capability if the right opportunity arises.
Be sure to upgrade the firmware to 1.01 if your camera doesn't already have that version. It fixes some problem the original fw had with the battery meter and different kinds of batteries. Without it battery performance is not very good when using rechargeables.