ID: B0027P9BQK-R1BKSDKS85UA1C-A2S97Z2I1TFOS
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VAIO-VGN-NW150J-15-5-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2S97Z2I1TFOS
ReviewerName: Deep Kamal "Deep Kamal"
Date: January 25, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Its Awesome..only two things bother me..touch pad and battery
Content:
I bought this laptop in June,2009 and its doing very well. I will breakdown its review in positive and negative points to make it easier for me to describe it.
First, the positives:
1. I totally love its looks. Its  very stylish, sexy and sleek laptop. The material used is plastic but it doesn't bother me at all as it looks pretty neat and attractive overall.
2. The keys are very well-placed and you rarely mistype "a" in place of "s" or "w" in place of "e". I used to have this problem with my previous laptop. Keyboard is so appropriately designed that you feel your fingers dancing without typing errors if you type very fast. Ergonomically speaking, you don't need to fight while typing! This was a major plus for me as I type a lott..
3. Webcam is good and the motion eye thing works well.
4. CD/DVD burner runs smoothly. I haven't used blueray feature till now but its good to have extra features covered in a single device..lol 
5. It works pretty fast, thanks to its good processor and a pretty good RAM. I do a lot of stuff and my laptop rarely crashes or slows down.
6. It has got very good storage space, more than enough for my usage. I store anything and everything on it and still I have so many gigabytes left to save more stuff.
7. It has three USB ports and I use two most of the times: one for headphones, and one for printer. I use third port for a pen-drive or bluetooth dongle but have never needed a fourth port. 
Negatives:
1. The battery life is 2 hours or less and not 4 as stated by sony. At this point (8 months after its purchase), its going even down and I am left with 1.5 hours or so of battery life. 
2. Many times the touch pad stops working and its frustrating when you are doing some important work online and need to scroll or click. This happens with me at least once everyday. I keep a mouse to bypass this..but it would have been better if the touch pad worked well..may be its with my laptop only.
3. It doesn't have a bluetooth in it. But you can buy a cheap bluetooth dongle separately and it will work the same way as an inbuilt bluetooth. I am doing the same and its going pretty well so far. So, not much of a negative if you don't use bluetooth very often or opt to buy an external dongle.
Overall, I am very happy with my purchase and would recommend this laptop to anyone who is looking for a beautiful wide-screened laptop from Sony Vaio NW-series.