ID: B002JCSV5I-R2Y77V18P45RNL-A2WWEWKNMZL3AA
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D3000-Digital-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G
ReviewerID: A2WWEWKNMZL3AA
ReviewerName: Francis O. Velasco "Francis"
Date: January 1, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Nikon D3000 A Beginners First Step Towards the Photography World
Content:
I am a Beginner Photography with not alot of money and not alot of experience, i chose Nikon of Canon because of a few things.
1. User FRIENDLY, GUIDE MODE IS A MUST! The whole camera is FILLED with tips and EXAMPLES and settings of what to do and how to achieve such and such. Guide mode holds your hand for newbies to give you an idea of whats what, i love how the Nikon D3000 is Half a book and All camera! Thanks Nikon for making such a great quality camera.
2. Takes Great pictures, as an entry level dslr it takes great pictures but i think its the same sensor as the d60 just with 11 points of focus , the 11 point focus is definitely useful, theres more areas for your subject to be in, and Depth of field pictures are definitely easier to do with more focus points.
The Nikon d3000 with the 18-55mm lens is perfect for everyday use but not enough, i suggest it should be complimented with a 55-200mm, because sometimes you cannot get close enough to the subject without getting in the way of the people around you!
The Screen is big and wide and perfect for reviewing images and looking at settings, you dont have to look hard. The settings do get washed out in direct sunlight so try to keep it in your shadow
Also post processing of pictures comes out AWESOME!!! i could not believe the level of detail i saw on my computer, it wasnt blurry and zooming in is really pixel squares.
Nice camera for beginners, if your novice or pro this camera isnt for you, while a newbie like me appreciate the tips it does take a while to get around the settings but you get used to it, there is no quick access to any 1 setting but soon your fingers will be faster than any other photographer, once you get used to all the navigating.
ALSO this is a camera where you can customize the background of your screen! you can have a wallpaper of a picture or change the color.
I hope this is a comprehensive review that will satisfy you into buying the camera :D