ID: B0029U0WY8-R3EHBC2N8RQ7GE-A1OG2RZHWBAQH8
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Sony-Digital-SteadyShot-Stabilization-18-55mm
ReviewerID: A1OG2RZHWBAQH8
ReviewerName: Kenneth L. Sockwell
Date: January 6, 2010
Helpful: 21 of 21
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Camera for old Minolta users!
Content:
I've been using this camera for several weeks now and I am very impressed. Here are the pros, in my opinion: 
(1) The camera is very light and balanced when using the 18-55 lens. My wife was very surprised at the weight, or lack of it.
(2) Minolta Maxxum autofocus lenses work flawlessly with this camera! I have two old telephotos (20 years old) that produce incredible pictures with the new Sony. My old zoom flash works too, although I have to adjust exposure manually. Although the newer Sony lenses are much lighter, quality older lenses can be purchased on auction sites for a fraction of the cost of new lenses. Just remember: they will be much heavier than today's modern opticals.
(3) The A330 functions well as an automatic point and shoot camera, but also allows the flexibility to set everything manually if desired. I especially appreciate the ease of setting white balance for those flashless shots in changing lighting conditions. Depth of field was easy to adjust using Aperture priority.
(4) Picture quality is outstanding. Viewing the high definition output on my Sony Bravia through the HDMI output is an incredible way to preview photos. My TV remote even advances the photos in my camera as I watch!
(5) It will take both an SD memory card and a Memory Stick Pro Duo card AT THE SAME TIME. When one is full, the flip of a switch changes to the other card. Memory is mostly limited by the size of your wallet.
(6) The 3200 iso setting does well in low light situations, although there is some grain.
Here are a few cons:
(1) Some functions are buried in menus. This seems to be par for the course these days for all camera manufacturers.
(2) In moving up from an 8 mega-pixel camera, this 10.2 creates substantially larger files. It is important to take into consideration what the photos will be used for, and then set the resolution accordingly.
(3) The pop up flash knocks my hat off!
I did a lot of research before purchasing this camera. The primary selling point was the ability to use my old Minolta lenses, and the tilting rear screen. This camera reminds me of my old 35mm. It feels like I am really taking pictures again, instead of merely capturing digital images. Those wanting or needed more features should look at the higher end Sonys. However, for beginner or intermediate photographers, this should fit the bill just fine!