ID: B002QUZKYS-R2V36GCAS1TNWS-A3CXY7N28CI5D1
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-AS5738Z-4111-15-6-Inch-Windows-Premium
ReviewerID: A3CXY7N28CI5D1
ReviewerName: George
Date: November 22, 2009
Helpful: 9 of 12
Rating: 2.0
Title: Good Value for the money: But watch out
Content:
I bought this computer to integrate on-line radio stations to my home stereo system. This is a nice little computer I use`to store and play all my music. The 300G hard drive allows plenty of space to store pictures and music. I bought this as an alternative to a lot of the MP3 players and other audio devices currently on the market. If you compare the price to some of the high end MP3s/Ipods I think this brings a lot more functionality for the money. For example, I can manage several playlists from different music providers into one portable laptop. This allows me to utilize Apple, Sattelite (XM/Surrius) and on-line radio stations (Slacker/FRhapsody)as well as my music portfolio with one device. I like the energy saving features where the computer powers down when not in use. Windows 7 is fast and easy to use. On the down side, it took several hours to set up the laptop and ACER support was not very helpful. The proxy settings were incorrect and as a result I could not install anti virus software. ACER did not take responsibility for the issue and referred me to the software provider. Also while connecting to my wireless network my passsord was not recognized.... Took several hours to resolve. I think ACER should test their products more completely prior to offering for sale. Also, streaming music between computers seems slow..... I checked network spead and noticed no matter what I do this computer does not go faster than 54Mbps in wireless network mode. Although advertised as wireless N this computer performs as a wireless G network. WATCH OUT! I called Acer and they told me as long as I get a wireless signal this is not their issue. After several more hours working with my ISP I determined there is an issue with the ACER network card. In short this computer operates at Wireless G speeds. This is running an Atheros AR5B93 network card. Acer `finally admitted the issue and I have an open ticket with them to resolve. Also, I agree with other reviews about the poor quality in keyboarde. But again for the money this is a good machine and because of the size and prtability a nice alternative to expensive MP3 or other portable music players...... Would appreciate better customer support from ACER. A rating of 2 because of poor customer support, slow network speed, and keyboard issues.