ID: B002PHM0PO-R2ICR3IVMFZGRH-AASSDFY9K6G2T
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VGN-SR510G-13-3-Inch-Windows-Professional
ReviewerID: AASSDFY9K6G2T
ReviewerName: Abdulrahman Aljabri
Date: January 6, 2010
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: The best notebook for the photographer on the go!
Content:
I am not a big fan of throwing "best of this and best of that" labels. There are, however, items that deserve such labels and I think the Sony SR is one of them. I bought this notebook for my media production company. I personally use it when shooting on location tethered to a camera. The quality, performance, and design aspects are very impressive and come together to serve the user very well. 
The best aspect is the LED screen, which produces correct colors and perfect luminosity gradients. Furthermore, the screen resolution is 1280x800. That produces a resolution aspect ratio of 1.6 which is very close to the aspect ratio of my 35mm camera's native files resolution. This means I can view my pictures at full view with very little space going to waist in vertical bars at each side of the screen. Other ultra wide notebook screens produce a resolution around 13##x7## waisting so much screen space on each side in full picture display. Also, browsing the web at such resolution makes pages too shot, requiring constant vertical scrawling. With the SR native resolution, browsing feels natural.   
Performance wise this computer was capable of handling everything I threw at it. The 4Gigs of ram and 64bit operating system for example makes starting and using Photoshop CS4 RAW for checking white balance a breeze. The laptop is also light weight and solid. Using this laptop in my work places allot of stress on the chassis. I constantly reach out for the notebook and hold it with one hand, lifting its full weight from one side but feeling no flexing or no hearing cracking sounds period.   
I researched allot of notebooks, many of which had very unique features this notebook did not have. Ultimately I narrowed my choice between Asus and Sony. Asus offered better value but this one won because of the better screen.