ID: B002LEVGMO-R2HQW5R9JGLUQG-A3QSVTHSQKV4BA
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Aspire-AS1410-8804-11-6-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A3QSVTHSQKV4BA
ReviewerName: Timothy A. Curry
Date: October 29, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: More Powerful Than A Standard Netbook
Content:
I've had the Acer 1410 for a week now and am delighted with the purchase.  It has several significant advantages over the now-standard Netbooks: processor, keyboard, and memory capacity, which I'll address in Pros.  In the Cons I'll mention a couple of minor things and one major one.
Pros: (1) Processor.  The Core Solo is a 64-bit platform, unlike the Atom that is found in most of the netbooks.  This means that you can run a 64-bit operating system such as 64-bit Linux or Windows7, which in turn will allow you to utilize the maximum 4 GB that the 1410 will hold.  More of that in a moment.  It is also, depending on the benchmark, between 3 and 6 times as fast as the Atom in normal-usage processing.  Note: a multi-core version of this is due for release next year; if processing power is a factor in purchase that might be worth waiting for.  For everything I've done so far the machine seems quite a bit faster than a colleague's netbook.
(2) Keyboard.  It really is a full-size keyboard.  I find it easier to touch-type on than the reduced-size keyboards typical of the 9-inch netbooks.  Like them, however, it has no dedicated Home and End keys.  The touchpad is flush with the keyboard and it takes a little adjustment to feel the ridge where the touchpad ends.  Good, positive-feeling buttons below in the "normal" laptop configuration.
(3) Memory Capacity.  It's 4 GB, which is double most of the netbooks and four times that of some.  Minimizing disk access not only gives a performance increase but prolongs battery life.  My machine shipped with a single 2 GB stick - I bought the extra stick from Amazon and installation was a snap - about five minutes with a single screwdriver.  Noticeable performance increase.  
Cons: (1) Case is shiny and quite attractive, but it's a fingerprint magnet.  Very noticeable, but a very minor annoyance.
(2) Screen is not matte - this is both good and bad. It allows the display extra brightness, which is nice for these old eyes, but it also allows glare if there is a bright light behind the user.  Not so minor annoyance if it can't be adjusted, which it usually can.
(3) The installed trialware.  This has nothing to do with the hardware and everything to do with Acer marketing.  Shame on them.  When first plugged into the Internet and turned on, the box was set to automatically download (a) 29 Windows updates (mine shipped with Vista Home Premium), (b) a McAfee virus signature update AND an engine update, (c) the Acer registration, (d) an update for a disk encryption program named MyWinLocker.  Disk light was solid blue for over a half-hour.  Terrible first impression.  Warning: do NOT try to interrupt the MyWinLocker update (don't even do it) because it does not break cleanly and the de-installation program no longer works if you interrupt the update.  Hooks everywhere in the Registry.  Total mess.  You get, in addition, a 60-day trial of Microsoft Office and what appeared to be SQL 2005.  On a netbook?  And an Acer games suite as well, And some communications shareware.  And...etc, etc, etc.  
I put up with that for a day and then opted to slick the drive (250 GB, which for a netbook is on the large side) and install 64-bit Win7.  What a relief!  Very crisp response, brilliant graphics, and now it's everything Acer designed it to be.  I can't stress enough how shipping it loaded down with Vista and bloatware hurt the initial impression.  Caution - although the 32-bit driver for the advanced features (multi-finger functions) worked fine with 32-bit Win7 it does not under the 64-bit version.  Presumably this will be corrected shortly.  It seemed a small sacrifice.
Overall impression - it's exactly what it's supposed to be, a step up from a standard netbook that handles more memory, bigger keyboard, and a faster processor, but not necessarily a replacement for a fully-powered laptop.  Longer battery life than the latter.  It's a straight tradeoff.  I'm delighted with the purchase.
My next project will be replacing the hard drive with a solid-state one.  Great performance numbers on the latter and it should increase battery life still further.