ID: B002TW6A4M-R2VTM16MR8F95-A1BTG38XSGYLW3
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-S2180-Titan-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A1BTG38XSGYLW3
ReviewerName: Aderyn
Date: February 23, 2010
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: Terrific vacuum!
Content:
I needed a new vacuum cleaner for over a year, so I had a long time to read up and do my research before I finally decided on a Miele, although not without hesitation; I mean, seriously, look at those price tags!  However, I am fed up with having to buy a new vacuum cleaner every few years, so I really wanted solid construction and reliability.  I thought about which features I needed, such as a power head for carpet, and arrived at the S2 line.  Just as Miele advertises, I think the vacuums in this line strike a good balance between features and price.
After a couple weeks of using the Titan, I realized that part of the reason I always disliked vacuuming was because no matter how thoroughly I did it, it always had to be done again so soon.  My house literally stays cleaner longer after I vacuum now.  That may sound like an exaggeration, but it makes me realize just how much dust, dirt, and pet hair (dog and two cats) my old vacuums either failed to capture or blew back out.  After vacuuming now, my house is cleaner and it even smells better, since the Titan's filtration makes it almost like taking an air purifier around from room to room.  I also have no more aching back and shoulders from dragging around a heavy, unwieldy vacuum and moving every piece of furniture; the Titan is very lightweight and maneuverable, and the power head is designed in a way that enables it to fit around and under nearly everything.  It's amazingly quiet, as well.
There are some drawbacks.  Because of the canister's small, lightweight design, there isn't a lot of room for the cord, so it's short.  The advertised 29-foot cleaning radius sounds like a lot, but it's not, and I use an extension cord.  Also because it's small, the tools travel in a little clip on top rather than under the cover.  It works okay, but to make it work, they had to keep the tools small, too, so the crevice tool is a shorty and the upholstery and dusting tools don't cover much ground in a single swipe.  However, the vac's power makes up for that, because everything gets caught the first time through (in fact, it's the first vacuum I've had that actually does a really good job of dusting -- as good as dusting by hand).  And, once again, there's the price, not only initially but also for the supplies.  The bags, for example, are almost $4 each (BIG, though), and Miele-branded accessories are similarly pricey.  Now that I've seen it dust, I really want the big, soft furniture brush that sells for a ridiculous $35+.
If I get the kind of use I'm hoping for from this vacuum, though, I think I'll end up money ahead in the end.  And in the meantime, I sure resent vacuuming a LOT less!