ID: B002PHM0G8-R1ZO8WX08QXS4-A3IAUFT2OSTOS2
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VGN-FW510F-16-4-Inch-Windows-Premium
ReviewerID: A3IAUFT2OSTOS2
ReviewerName: C. Daley
Date: January 13, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great laptop
Content:
I needed a laptop that was suitable for doing some desktop publishing and photo work. I looked at the inexpensive netbooks and ruled them out as too hard to type on and unable to run all the software I needed.  After checking out a number of makes at local stores I settled on Sony.  10 years or so ago I had a wonderful little Sony laptop and I was tempted to buy an SR series machine which was very similar.  But at the end of the day I couldn't justify the price premium I would have to pay for portability.  So I saved myself $150 and got this one instead.
The machine runs fast, boots fast, and remarkably didn't come with too many excess programs on it.  A few hours and I had it setup the way I needed it with all of my software loaded.  I've been a loyal XP user and wasn't sure I wanted to go with Windows 7 but the transition has been easy (I still run XP on my main desktop machine).  
One of the pluses on this machine is the better ATI graphics card. Many of the cheaper machines run the standard Intel cards. Getting blu-ray would have been another $100 or so and since I'm not going to be watching movies on the machine I wasn't willing to pay for it.
I like the keyboard and find it easy to type on.  Likewise the mouse pad works very well and does a good job of not being too sensitive.  Battery life under most conditions is a bit over 2 hours- fine for home use but not really good for traveling.  But if you are going to travel this is a heavy machine and not really suitable.  I'll borrow my wife's netbook if I have to get on a plane.
At the end of the day the Sony is a premium product.  I could have bought a cheaper machine with similar specs.  But the attention to detail and usability to me make the Sony the way to go.  It is a much more enjoyable experience working on the Sony.