ID: B002JPITY8-R1RDDWBUPMYEQJ-AMMYRQM2PDG7M
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Video-MP3-Player-Platinum
ReviewerID: AMMYRQM2PDG7M
ReviewerName: DJW "Informed Buyer"
Date: April 28, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: A Good Multimedia Player
Content:
It is not often that Microsoft releases a new product.  But when they do, you can almost always expect that it will bring a lot of discussion, criticism, and praise.  The big question is if these devices are actually as good as they are made out to be.
The Zune HD, released on September 15, 2009, was one of Microsoft's most recently anticipated devices.  It brought many new features to distinguish itself from the competition.  A few of those include Nvidia's Tegra chip and an OLED screen.  All of these sound good on paper, but how well are they implemented in the Zune HD.
Appearance - The Zune is a very appealing device.  Contrary to many devices that go for a smooth vibe, the HD takes on a design that involves many lines and gives off a boxy feel but also sleek at the same time.  It also has some subtle accents, like the silver screws in the back, or the brushed chrome back that make it look different than any other device on the market.
Ease of Use - The user interface of the Zune is fairly straightforward.  It uses gestures to navigate its menu system, and they work very well.  When you start it up, you are presented with a list of choices, including Music, Videos, Pictures, and others.  Also, if you flick your finger to the side, you can see a list of items that you have marked as your favorite, or the newest thing you added to your device.  A very useful feature when you want something fast.  But there are some downsides.  Occasionally, the Zune will not recognize button presses.  This does not usually hinder you, but it does get annoying really fast.  
Features - Another place where the Zune stands out and shines.  One of the biggest and most obvious features of the Zune HD is its OLED screen.  It makes colors pop and images displayed on it look flawless, especially in low light.  The only problem I have with the OLED is that it gets washed out in sunlight.  But if you can get past that small weakness, you will have one of the best screens in your hand.  Also, the Tegra chip in the Zune is impressive.  It can run a full 3D racing game with nice looking textures and many objects on screen without any sign of a choppy picture.  The HD radio is nice, too, because with it, you can access many new stations that you would not normally be able to listen to without it.  But there always must also be some weak points.  One of those would be the Zune's selection of apps.  There is no app store that includes user made apps, and the ones that are in the store are all free but boot up with an add.  But the Zune was made as to be a media player, and it excels at that in every aspect.
As you may have recognized by now, the Zune is one of the best devices for your personal media.  But if you are a person that needs apps, and lots of them, you have the wrong device.  For almost any other media needs, the Zune will meet and even surpass your expectations.  And with all of the features you get in such a small package, you won't find a better looking device anywhere.