ID: B002C7446A-R2ELM3CTFF7PME-A16UGN7THHWCOB
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB991LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A16UGN7THHWCOB
ReviewerName: Robert Cassiere "Rob"
Date: December 11, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Well worth the cost...love it.
Content:
I was a Mac person 15 years ago and switched to the PC/Windows world for 15 years. After frustration and a slow OS (XP and Vista) I finally decided to go back to the Mac. I went to a few place to try it out and was amazed at how much faster it was. So I figured that since these are newer machines, they were not filled with a lot of garbage slowing them down. I then tried a friends 2 year old Mac and it was nearly as fast (slower machine with less RAM), so I jumped on board.
I do not regret this purchase one bit. When I go to work I realize how much I hate the slow-bloatware PC based and the 6 minute PC boottime seems like forever. I am so spoiled with the 16 seconds to boot and 2 seconds to shut down (Actually I almost never shut down, just close the lid and it sleeps) and with the long battery life it is not an issue. I can go to Starbucks (where I am now) and not even need to bring the charging cord because the battery has been lasting about 4-1/2 to 5 hours (I put my screen at max brightness so I do not get the 7 hours, but could bring down the brightness if I needed to).
The keyboard is different but got used to it quickly. The trackpad is really usefully and multi-functional. I can swipe 3-finger between pages, scroll and rotate pictures.
I was on the fence about switching over for about 3 months and wish I would have done this sooner.
The included software (iLife) is decent & powerful software that is not teaser software that asks for additional money for additional features.
I had such a hard time with my PC and JVC Hard Drive Camcorder. It would take 3-4 hours to get the scenes loaded and the DVD burned. The Mac natively (iDVD and iMovie) can import and read the scenes and build and author a movie in 1/2 the time, plus they look more polished (every Apple usually does).
I am NOT a gamer, so I cannot comment on that. Also I am NOT using Bootcamp (ability to boot as a Windows machine) as I am trying to cut the cord and go 100% Mac which in 3 months have never been an issue yet.
The screen is also so sharp and bright it is a pleasure to work on.
The only things I purchase additionally were:
4 GB Ram
Magic Mouse (for photo editing)
iWorks (Letters, Spreadsheet, Presentation)
and the DVi Adapter (to use my external HP monitor for Lightroom photo editing - 25% of the time)
I could not be happier with this computer and waited 3 months to do this review so the new toy effect wore off and the review would be more accurate.
Buy it and enjoy using a computer, not waiting for Windows to load, Virus software to update, services to load and just get down to using your computer.
I went with the 13.3" because I wanted a smaller/lighter solution and have the ability to connect to a larger screen at home if needed (though I a spoiled by the Mac screen so I use that as much as possible). I was a little concerned that the smaller screen would be too small, but the desktop seems like it is about the size of workable space.
I am running Snow Leopard as that is what it came with and have not had any issues.