ID: B002LEXA64-R1BZ8XUIVVLA6T-AJT1YE11YABF7
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Aspire-AS1410-8414-11-6-Inch-Sapphire
ReviewerID: AJT1YE11YABF7
ReviewerName: C. Stivers
Date: September 29, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best Netbook Available
Content:
After spending several weeks searching through all the netbooks that are available on the market, I found out about the new Acer Aspire 1410. This baby has a bit more computing power and storage space than most of the base models and the 11.6" screen (with its 1366x768 resolution) is a huge improvement over the 10" screens. It's also extremely light and very easy to tote around.
The big draw for me was the Windows Home Premium operating system...all other netbooks with Vista have only the Home Basic version, which does NOT qualify for the Free Upgrade to Windows 7. Home Premium, however gets a Free Upgrade, so I won't have to pay the extra $100 to get Windows 7 when it comes out. I was worried about getting Vista after hearing about all the problems everyone was having, but I haven't had any real issues with it yet. It can be annoying at times, but nothing too serious.
I haven't had any need for an optical drive yet, though the lack of one may be a problem eventually. The HDMI port will be useful if I buy an external monitor and there is a VGA port for connecting to an external monitor as well.
The card reader is another nice feature...makes uploading photos from my digital camera very easy.
My major issue so far (and it's not that big of a deal) is the lack of separate 'Home' and 'End' keys on the keyboard. There is a 'Fn' key that makes the 'Pg Up' and 'Pg Dn' function as 'Home' and 'End' but these are a bit tricky to use. 
Another minor downside is the lack of cases/skins to fit the 11.6" screen, though I imagine as they become more popular that will become less of an issue. I also managed to order a case from Amazon, which should hopefully do the trick.
Video quality is fine, though movies will occasionally slow down or skip once in awhile. And I haven't timed the battery life, but it has been sufficient for me...I'm never away from an outlet for more than a few hours really. The case definitely attracts fingerprints, but that doesn't bother me at all. Just wipe it clean occasionally.
So in summary, this netbook has everything I need on it, a large, clear screen, is extremely portable and looks very sleek! My main gripe is the keyboard and again, that's a minor concern at worst. This is definitely a great value buy for the price, especially when you consider the Free Upgrade to Windows 7.