ID: B002L6HDTC-R1QN3D671UFKGU-A20S4G1EXF2OM7
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Black-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A20S4G1EXF2OM7
ReviewerName: Electronic Gadgetphile
Date: September 14, 2009
Helpful: 102 of 107
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best iPod Yet
Content:
I really didn't need a new iPod as I currently own an iPhone 3G(S), two older Nanos, an older 1 GB Shuffle and two iPod Classics in 15 GB and 30 GB configurations that I recently installed new batteries in. But I HAD to have the new one and justified it to myself by Apple's seductive inclusion of an FM radio in this 5th generation edition.
 
Having said all of that, I am really impressed with this new 5th generation iPod Nano. I find that the FM radio has great reception and is easy to use, unlike the Apple dongle radio attachment I use on my previous generation Nano. The radio software integration is nicely done and very simple to use, set favorite stations and pause as necessary to talk on the phone and then quickly resume where the music or talk show left off for up to 15 minutes.
The playback of pre-recorded movie video is clear and the sound is very good as with earlier iPods. The video recording is point and shoot simple to use but not of very high quality - about what you would expect from a cell phone- but I really don't plan on using this as a video camera. Would have been nice if Apple had included a still camera as well but I suspect the quality would not be acceptable without adding more componentry requiring more space and cost. I did note that this iPod has a speaker built in (which I assume is the microphone as well) but its sound quality is not good.
The pedometer function (Fitness) is interesting and can be used without any external attachments. It only counts steps and not distance so I assume that I will need to multiply the counted steps by stride length to come up with distance walked. Ironically, it does have you put in your weight but I'm not certain how this is used.
The build quality is superb, the unit is very compact and light weight with Apple's customary intuitive user interfaces that make it easy to use right out of the box without reading the instructions (which I dread resorting to anyway). In summary, I am very pleased with my new iPod and am rapidly working on irrefutable justifications for its purchase before the credit card statement arrives and my wife asks, "Did you buy ANOTHER iPod?".