ID: B002LC631A-R32O7CCOWXUSEN-A1XY2C6L9A78BR
Category: Laptops
Product: HP-ProBook-4510s-AW998US-Notebook
ReviewerID: A1XY2C6L9A78BR
ReviewerName: Betsy Davenport
Date: November 20, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 3.0
Title: Wish I could return it
Content:
This computer maybe can do it all, but hp worked too hard on making it cool and sleek while forgetting that fingers make fingerprints.  For starters, the case is so shiny that even the cleanest hands make marks on it.  All the time.  Now, I know this isn't the point of a computer, but if it is important enough to make a purely shiny black case, it is important enough to make a case that won't look like someone put their greasy fingers on it all the time.  Stupid.
The keyboard is terrific, in an important way.  The keys are set into it in such a way that stuff doesn't get under them, much.  The Delete key is very small, though, so I figure whoever designed the keyboard doesn't want us to remove what we've typed.  Some people will think having the 10-key pad right there is wonderful; I have no use for it and only bought this one because of other features.
It seems solid enough sitting here in the desk, and I am sure it is, but the overall feel of it is that it is too thin, too delicate, and too fragile.  I have had laptops that weighed about the same and had a much more durable feel.  So maybe it is all about styling, but that matters.  The screen is appallingly bright and clear.  However, its measurements are puny.  Diagonal may be accurate, but it is narrower and wider, so it is annoying when scrolling through documents or web pages.  Can't get enough on the screen at a time.  This might be its most annoying feature.
So no matter how fast it is or how many things I might be able to run at the same time, if I can't see what's on the screen, it is useless.  If I could send it back and get my money back, I would.  But right now, the value is so much less than when I bought it a few months ago, it would be a waste of money.  I am already trying to think how I can foist this one off on my husband so I can get one I like better.