ID: B002OEBTCS-R3CCWZERSKYAXP-A1IMHJCSA9LEX7
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-K-x-2-7-inch-18-55mm-55-300mm
ReviewerID: A1IMHJCSA9LEX7
ReviewerName: Sammy "Sam"
Date: March 21, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Awesome DSLR for the money
Content:
I've been searching for a new digital camera for a while now, thought I'd cross into the DSLR realm.  I'm spending less time at bars with a point and shoot and more time with friends/family at events where I can actually carry around a decent camera if I wanted to.
I considered the Pentax k-x and the Nikon D3000/D5000.  What won me over on the Pentax were a few key features that the Nikon was missing.
-In Camera Shake Reduction
-Compatibility with every old pentax lenses ever made which makes growing a lens collection cheap and easy via ebay, craigslist, etc.
-All the required camera options and filters and then some cool ones, including toy camera, miniature, and in camera HDR which works very well
-Overall Price/Value, I got the Pentax k-x w/ the 18-55mm and 50-300mm lenses for 707 shipped.  That's a lot of camera and glass for that price!
Technical impressions:
Overall, the body and lenses feel very solid and well built.  Came with a decent strap.  Some things you'll want to pick up: a set of multi-coated UV filters to protect the front lens element, a decent case/pack/holster to keep it in, a good set of rechargeable batteries (I got the Sanyo Eneloops, I've also tried Rayovac Hybrids and they all seem to work fine--300 shots and I"m still showing full battery life), a good fast SD card (I got an Adata 8GB class 10 card on a daily special from another site for $18 shipped...I'm not typically into the hype around classes, etc. but for shooting 5 frames per second with files that are 5-8mb each, you want something with some speed).
Shooting impressions:
Initially I wasn't blown away with the results shooting around the house, etc.  This past weekend however, I had an opportunity to shoot about 250 photos at a friend's wedding.  Superlative performance inside the church, outside the church, and both inside and outside later that evening at the reception.  With point and shoots, you would probably get 10-15 good shots throughout a day like that after shooting a ton.  I took 250+ photos, and have 120 "keepers".  Most of the photos I got rid of were pretty much duplicates because I was shooting 5 frames per second for some of the activities.  I asked someone to snap a picture for me with some friends, he had a D3000 around his neck.  He took a few shots for me, handed it back and said it felt like it was in a whole different league compared to the entry level Nikon.
Overall, I don't think there's anything better in this price range for and entry level photographer or someone looking for a great all purpose camera.  I'm extremely happy with my purchase thus far!