ID: B002MZYZHU-RDWZVD3URP5-AVR3F6VQYIMZW
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Breville-BKC700XL-Single-Serve-Coffeemaker-Iced-Beverage
ReviewerID: AVR3F6VQYIMZW
ReviewerName: Joseph Tidline
Date: November 24, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Enjoy gourmet coffee in your home one cup at a time
Content:
Being the only coffee drinker in my household, I have always been a fan of the idea of single cup coffee makers. I had previously owned a Senseo coffee maker which while convenient, I was not a big fan of the froth that it produced with every cup. And it was a very loud machine. But that was 5 years ago, and technology is always changing and improving. So when I had the chance to try out the Breville BKC700XL I jumped at the chance. I had seriously considered buying a K-Cup coffee maker in the past but found them to be out of my price range. After trying out the Breville I can sort of see why the high price tag. 
First off straight out of the box you can see the quality. It is a really nice looking machine. It looks great sitting on my kitchen counter alongside my other appliances. In fact it resembles a machine that you would find in a high end coffee shop. For me what makes this machine better than the Senseo makers is that I am not limited to just making coffee. I can also make hot chocolate or tea. Even iced tea if I want. Since I like my coffee strong it took me a few tries before I found the right setting to get the perfect cup of coffee to my liking but it was worth it. The coffee tasted so good I found myself brewing another cup.
The only negative I have with this machine, and it's a small one, is that the display on the front of the machine is very bright. I found myself waking up in the middle of the night to go to the bathroom and was wondering what the bright light in the kitchen was. Turns out it was coming from the coffee maker, but at least I don't have to worry about turning on the light in the kitchen in the middle of the night.
Yes the price of this machine can range anywhere from $250 to $300. But if you can afford it then you will not regret it. You will find yourself spending less money at the fancy coffee places and you will be saving money in the long run and enjoy the same great cup of coffee in the comfort of your home.