ID: B002PIRE2M-R18B1D8L15EHE7-ARFXDINJBLMEV
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Aspire-1410-2936-Widescreen-CineCrystal
ReviewerID: ARFXDINJBLMEV
ReviewerName: msdalem
Date: December 31, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great device.  I just love it.
Content:
Agreeing with the previous rave reviews, but not wanting to repeat the specs I will just add my personal experience with this notebook.  I have owned this for almost a month now, and I really love it.
 
It's small enough to carry around, yet big enough to see clearly. I hardly ever used my old laptop anymore, because it was so big and bulky. Now it seems that I find new uses for this notebook everyday.
 
Being a dual core processor instead of an atom processor, and having Windows 7 Premium (not starter edition) clearly makes the difference. I have watched videos from YouTube and H[...] at full screen, and have not had any problems. After showing it around I get so many comments on how beautiful and clear the videos look. Common games have no problems playing, but I am not into heavy graphical games. Computer boot time, program opening, surfing the web, and video viewing are extremely fast. I am still using the orignal 2GB of ram, and haven't seen any reason to update as of yet.
 
The battery life is very good IMO. It last about six hours, which is plenty for me. I don't even need to bring the power supply when I take it with me, making it an even smaller product to carry. And at a little over three pounds I take it everywhere.  The case I bought for it fits perfectly, and is actually smaller than my purse.
 
Right now I am reading an ebook that is a pdf file, and find that I can read in portrait or landscape mode with Adobe Reader.  In portrait mode I can read a whole page at a time by rotating the view, and either holding it like a book or turning in on its' side on a table. Who needs a dedicated reader? (And this one is backlit, unlike most readers.)
 
I find that typing on this keyboard seems to be a better experience than on my full size keyboard.  I can type faster with less mistakes. I have short fingers, so this keyboard fits my typing style.
 
If you are deciding between this and the smaller netbooks, do yourself a favor and purchase this notebook. It will run circles around the netbooks. You will be happy you bought this when you hear the netbook owners complaining of jerky videos, and slow performance.  We are all looking for the smallest for carrying around, but without the power, what good is it? 
 
I am very happy with the Aspire AS1410-2936. It does exactly what I hoped it would do and more. If I had it to do all over again I would definitely buy the Aspire again. It's just plain fun!
Pros : Comfortable Keyboard, Fast, Adequate Storage, Compact, Lightweight, Good Battery Life. 
Cons : None that I can find