ID: B002L6HDTC-RXCCN0T0WJPUR-A17NKNLZNPLZ5C
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Black-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A17NKNLZNPLZ5C
ReviewerName: J. BOYD
Date: September 12, 2009
Helpful: 34 of 40
Rating: 5.0
Title: The Best Nano Yet!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Content:
I know alot of people will be upset with the title of my review but I personally think that the iPod Nano 5th Generation is the best yet. I just received mine yesterday directly from the Apple online store and have been enjoying the features. I notice that the audio playback has improved alot over the previous generations I could hear hissing in the third generation and didn't really remember how if sounded on the fourth generation because I didn't have it along time. I've owned all the iPod Nanos at one point and I can honestly say that I love the screen as it's good for causal viewing of a movie or show. The voice and voice memos function work great so does the radio but the radio requires headphones to get a signal but other than that you can listen to your tunes without headphones. As for the video camera it's a nice addition considering it's an mp3 player first and foremost, I think people are going to go into this and think maybe I can replace my old video, NO. It just a solid low quality video camera some of the lighting or your fingers may get in the way of the actual recording but once you get use to it, it can become fun. Since I own an iPhone I wasn't disappointed by the lack of a camera or other functions that maybe missing from the iPod Touch it would've been nice to see those functions on the Touch but again I'm not disappointed if you're looking for a media player that has many functions including a build-in pedometer and the other funtions listed for a resonable price check into the iPod Nano, if you want the app store and multi-touch and internet access check into the touch but having owned a Touc the first gen and second I'd wait and purchase the 8GB or 16GB iPod Nano to tie me over until the next refresh I believe that the Touch is going the functions as the Nano very soon, remember Apple added a 32gb iPod Touch in January of last yr.