ID: B002BDU9N2-R136NYXJDSDAMU-A353PXR7S3EAUY
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Portable-Satellite-U505-S2940-13-3-Inch
ReviewerID: A353PXR7S3EAUY
ReviewerName: Marco Arana
Date: October 16, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excelent Value-Cost notebook
Content:
The 2940 has an Intel P7350 @2.00 Ghz.  microprocesor. It has a good performance.  I do a lot of e-learning contents development and certanly you can not compare it with my core i7  desktop in terms of performance, but it is speed enough to create flash files, videos, photoshop:  i have made 80 megabytes panoramic photo without problem in png format, as well 300 megabyte in photo in .psd.  This laptop cames with 4gbytes of ram and you can upgrade it to 8gbyte.  The first thing I did was upgrade it from Windows 64 home premium to Windows 7 RC, so far no big problems, maybe just a little hard work finding mic driver.   The battery, yes, it is bulky, but it last at least 7 hours, the 12 cells, the one that left one inch below the notebook, but for traveling, you can get enough procesor power for almost 8 hours; nothing in this life is perfect, but this ones is good enought for my needs; so traveling between Japan and America was no problem.
Screen, excellent, even when it has glossy screen type, no reflections like HP screens or Dell ( i have one of each, and reflection is a major issue in them), so excellent screen.  
The dvd, it is   slot loading type, like Mac, but a little noisy.  It gets stuck with some cd or DVD due the label.  You can extract the DVD with the help of an presentation card or credit card.
Keyboard... no complains, excellent keyboard, i like the bakclite, in fact that was one of the major adventjes to buy it.
Movie player... no problems with HD movies and HDMI, works perfect.  Sound, very loud, no complains.  Camera, it gets dark when there is diect light pointing to it, but if the light is pointing to your face, no problem.  Thats because the software adjust the exposure, so you can diable it anyway.
Eco mode, very nais, for the most task you can use the machine in multitasking and eco_mode, but if you are working with video o large photos, it is better to disable, anyway it is one click (touch-click) disable-enable.
The touchpad i realy do not like it.  I think is better the one in HP, to sensitive for me, but i use a pen table, so no big problem anyway.
Free upgrade to windows 7, already waiting for official lauch to be shippend to my address.
Wireless: excelent range, no problem.  USB-power without turning on... excellent!  Runs cool. Hard drive: 320 GByte, good speed, no complain.  Realy recommend it.