ID: B002XZLURC-R6KIOQUX0N843-A1J6DASK9FG6IV
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30Vt-X1-Light-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A1J6DASK9FG6IV
ReviewerName: Robert D. Wade
Date: February 2, 2010
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Even better than I expected
Content:
After reading pretty much every review available for this model not just on amazon but all across the web, I felt like I had a pretty good idea of what to expect when this laptop finally arrived. Well, I've had it for about a day now, but used it a lot and I wanted to give my first impressions since they contrast with some of the information that is out there. 
First off, the unboxing was nice, the UL30Vt was snug and didn't come with too much extraneous crap. The manual, though, is horrible. It's a generic book for just about any of Asus's laptops and is almost totally useless unless you've never seen a laptop before. First boot took a while, setting up windows and getting all the updates, but once that was done the first thing I noticed about this laptop was, it's SNAPPY! Most laptops I've seen seem to drag along forever while they load anything. This laptop's hard drive must be pretty quick (Windows rates it a 5.9, not bad). After using it a while I'm not even sure you really NEED a SSD; I haven't spent much time waiting on the disk (I've got one on order anyway :) ). 
The next thing I want to address is the TOUCHPAD. Every review everywhere has a comment about the touchpad, some good, most bad. My impression is that it isn't NEARLY as bad as some have made it out to be. It works totally fine, and is plenty accurate. The multi-touch works basically perfectly. There was a lot of friction at first due to the plastic surface but you know what the solution was? Wipe one finger across your forehead and then rub the touchpad and it's "seasoned" perfectly. A little gross, I know, but it works. 
The performance from the CPU and GPU have been great. I plan to pretty much keep mine on the G210M and running at 1.73GHz all the time, why not? Life's too short to have a slow computer. 
PLUS, and please listen to this because I didn't see it mentioned ANYWHERE ELSE but it's crucial and makes a BIG difference. When you're on the integrated graphics you get the standard intel graphics driver. When you're on the nVidia chip, you get the 186.88 version of the nVidia driver. Yes, we all want an update to a more recent version for various reasons (and maybe that will someday we'll get it, surely) but until then, the most important thing about this is: nVidia drivers have an option for adjusting something they call DIGITAL VIBRANCE. It is like saturation. Adjusting this control upwards makes the colors so much richer and brighter, the quality of the image on the screen increases dramatically, in my opinion. If you haven't tried adjusting this, you are missing out on one of the best parts of using an nVidia chip. When you switch back to the intel graphics, the color enhancement goes away, since the drivers switched. I'm just keeping mine on nVidia. 
Moving on, the hard drive is also VERY quiet. I can't hear it all unless I put my ear right on it. I don't know what anyone else was talking about with the loud hard drive. Also, the laptop feels very solid. No flex that I can feel, very light for the size. The bloatware was totally manageable and not unreasonable at all. It took an hour maybe to get it all under control. Overall I've been very pleasantly surprised that the few negatives I heard so many people whine about weren't actually much of a deal at all and the positives were even better than expected. I would absolutely recommend this laptop. 
EDIT:
A week later and I've got the Intel X-25m 80GB SSD installed. The performance is absolutely incredible. The Windows Performance Index for the hard drive went from 5.9 (already pretty fast) to 7.7! Boot times are cut in half or more. Most programs load faster than you could move the mouse to start using them. Laptop is now silent. I can't comment on how the battery life may have changed, but if it's substantially improved I'll re-edit. Incidentally, the actual process of cloning the installed drive over to the new SSD was more involved than I expected. There is so much information out there on SSDs now; I thought I had it all figured out but didn't. Here's a quick synopsis of the steps I finally took that worked, and this will work for you too. I wish I'd had this information beforehand. OK, first thing to do is install (physically) the SSD in the laptop, and hook up a USB CD-ROM with the Intel Firmware update. Then take the SSD out and put the OEM disk back in. Boot to windows and run admin tools, computer management, disk management and partition and format the new SSD disk (connected via SATA-USB enclosure) with 4096 sectors and NTFS. This will ensure proper alignment. As I learned, you CAN NOT image the whole disk (including the hidden partition that contains the recovery information). But Clonezilla and Acronis True Image both WANT to try to clone/image the whole disk. What you want is the C: partition. The way to get this is to create an image backup (in Acronis) of the C: partition TO THE D: partition. Then you'll recover this image (and boot sector, it will give you the option) to the SSD (which you'll have to have mounted in a SATA-USB enclosure). One you do, physically put the SSD back in the laptop and bingo, boot up, Windows recognizes the new drive, reboot and you're golden. Good luck!
EDIT2: I've been using this laptop with the SSD for over a month now and I am still very impressed. It is basically the fastest "feeling" computer I've even used, and I've always built the most powerful desktop computers that I could afford at the time for myself. I don't even use my desktop anymore; I can't stand the wait. Also, I've been playing Half Life 2 all over again and this machine runs it perfectly. 
My only real complaint is that after I disabled the Elan touchpad driver (which does seem to make the touchpad work more smoothly) I can't find a way to turn off the touchpad all together. Since it's on all the time my thumb hits it A LOT when typing and the cursor moves from where it was supposed to be or worse. It really is a pain, if anyone knows how to turn this thing off please comment!
So if you're looking for the best $1050 laptop with 4GM RAM and a 8GB SSD buy this thing and the Intel X-25 and in a week you'll be glad you did. Cheers