ID: B002C747XA-RIF9MRC3HTCA9-A6VDMJX8DNX9X
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MC234LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A6VDMJX8DNX9X
ReviewerName: Bill
Date: January 22, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Was pleasantly surprised
Content:
First of all this will not be comparison between PC and MAC. I use both as well as a few different flavors of Unix (Linux, Ubuntu, BSD) and I also own a current generation 21.5 inch iMAC that is maxed on it's hardware and 15" MacBook Pro that is also maxed out on it's hardware.
So why did I buy this and why did I buy it from Amazon. That's easy, I'm lucky enough to have a large Apple store 20 miles from my house so I have been "playing" with the Air ever since it's release but until now I could not justify owning one but secretly always wanted one. I will admit that I have not played too much with this particular setup until now. I bought this from Amazon because I received lots of Amazon gift cards for Christmas and needed to use them and now with the 90+ dollars off Amazon was offering, let's just say my cost out of my pocket was down in the $800.
The reason I bought this was the ability to travel lite. My 15 inch is not that much heavier but I found that I just do not use all of it's features when I travel. I very rarely need more than one USB port and if I do with the Air, I'll have a small USB hub in the case. The lack of a DVD player is also not an issue for me. I can count on one hand how many times I used the one in the 15 model and that was only to install some software. I use the one in the iMAC a lot as I create video and DVD's for myself and others.
I thought the smaller screen and lack of ability to add memory would be an issue but so far I have not even worried about more memory. I went into buying this Air knowing exactly what it could do and what I expected from it, but like I mentioned the ability to add more memory would be nice.
Would I recommend it to someone, yes I would, but only after that person understands what it can and cannot do. If all you are going to do is run the occasional program like Office, or any of the iLife or iWork products then you will be in good shape. Start adding in most Adobe products like Photoshop CS4 and the like and you will see a performance hit as the machine is not built to do that kind of work. It will work, but it will be a bit slow. I read another review were the person says the Air is in-between a Netbook and a full fledged laptop and I'd agree with that to a point. While much more powerful than any Netbook I looked at, it is still a full fledged laptop, just toned down.
As far as the price, with the 91 dollars off right now and the gift cards I got a steal and them some. I suspect that the normal price reduction is based on what Apple is suppose to release on Jan 27, 2010. This actually made me wonder if I should wait to see if a new generation Air was coming, but the price was just to hard to pass up. I doubt seriously if they do announce a different Air I would be disappointed, I like mine way too much
What will I do with the 15 inch, I'm going to place it in the spare bedroom for my overnight guests to use and only allow it access to the internet and not the rest of my network, they will have access to the other software on it but I'll do what the Apple stores do and make it so that a reboot literally restores the machine to a just installed setup. I've seen how they do this and it's not that much different than using the Kickstart program that comes with just about every version of Unix nowadays, this way my guests can configure it any way they would like and a full restore is jsut a reboot away