ID: B002C7446A-R3Q0U6KS8092ZO-A2XAKGRUHIE2ZA
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB991LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2XAKGRUHIE2ZA
ReviewerName: P. Stein "Bengals Fan"
Date: November 4, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: This review is meant for new Apple users. MacBook Pro 13
Content:
I planned on buying a new Imac, and took my wife in to help me decide between the 21.5 or 27 inch screen. Instead, my wife fell in love with the MacBook Pro. 
Latest model with SD card, firewire.  I purchased this refurbished off the Apple site, and am using the savings to buy Applecare protection from Amazon.  Amazon's price is great. 
As a longtime and reasonably proficient Dell user, I am stunned by the quality of the Apple. My refurbished Dell is almost 5 years old, but I have suffered plenty. Ignore reviews about long learning curves on Apples.  Simple to use.  I had never used a wireless connection, but the Apple immediately walked me through the connection to my Linksys router.  Worked immediately.  My wife can now surf from the kitchen table - her big wish. I did have a few questions.  I sent Apple a support request, and they immediately called me on my phone. Sixty second wait on the callback. Person was clearly a US type-with perfect English. A wonderful treat.
I had a few other minor questions, and we drove 45 miles to the nearest Apple store.  What a treat.  A tech person immediately showed us how to do a few things, like enlarging the print.  I then realized that since Apple designs both the hardware and software, all questions are handled in one call - or visit.  No jumping between hardware and software providers.  If any problems do arise, I can drive down to the Apple store, and they will fix it while I wait, or send it away for me.  As I said, I am buying the Appleware Protection plan, because it also provides 3 years of phone/store support.  
Another treat-I tunes. I never expected to use it. As I said, I'm retired, and never could understand why I Pods were so popular.  I do now.  I have downloaded 20 of my favorite songs, exactly the songs I wanted, many hard to find. Even one great Robert Palmer video song, Simply Irresistible, for $ 1.29. I don't use my computer with productivity software, but I'm sure having a blast.  Love the built in mouse.  But-when I got started, I used a regular mouse for a few days, while becoming familiar with the computer. My inexpensive Logitech wireless mouse  worked perfectly.