ID: B002PAQXAE-R6932DPKWUVGU-A16B2D3QB578PM
Category: Laptops
Product: UL20A-A1-Light-12-1-Inch-Silver-Laptop
ReviewerID: A16B2D3QB578PM
ReviewerName: Sam
Date: April 26, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very Impressive Notebook
Content:
I've purchased and used a wide variety of ultraportable notebooks over the years and this notebook is definitely one of the most impressive.  I have used 12" and 14" Dell Latitudes, a 13" MacBook Pro, a 12" iBook, two 12" IBM/Lenovo Thinkpads, a 14" Dell Vostro, and a 10" Lenovo netbook.  Some of these notebooks have individual features that may be superior to those of the ASUS.  The Thinkpads have the best keyboards by far, the MacBook Pro was the most aesthetically pleasing, and the Lenovo netbook was the least expensive.  The Apple iBook was not very impressive.  The Dells I used because they were work issue.      
I have used ASUS motherboards in the past and have been impressed with their quality.  ASUS has always been one of the premier manufacturers of motherboards.  I read positive reviews about this notebook and was impressed by it's long battery life, portability, energy efficiency, and aesthetics.  It has more than sufficient power with it's dual core ultra low voltage processor that is faster than many of the last generation dual core processors with higher clock speed ratings.  It runs Flash games flawlessly without much heat or noise.  The brushed aluminum lid is beautiful and resists fingerprints.  Battery life is as advertised and there have been no problems with crashes, bugs, or incompatibilities.  
I only have a few negatives to note.  There are too many pre-installed ASUS utilities that I had to uninstall.  Some people might find them useful, but I found them to be clutter.  The touchpad area was initially somewhat sticky, but with use is no longer an issue.  Otherwise, the keyboard is pretty good but not as exceptional as that of a Thinkpad, the body is not quite as beautiful as a MacBook Pro's, and the price is not as low as that of a netbook.  
Otherwise, this ASUS notebook provides the best combination of aesthetics, functionality, portability, usability, and value that I have EVER seen in a notebook and I would whole-heartedly recommend this computer to friends and family.