ID: B002OL2PLU-RZNC34KBZWH12-A2V99XA4BXANGB
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-32-Internet-Tablet-Android
ReviewerID: A2V99XA4BXANGB
ReviewerName: Jonathan Rockway
Date: November 15, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Better now than a month ago
Content:
Hardware-wise, this is a nice device.  Android feels bogged down on my phone, but on this device, it's wonderful.  Animations are smooth, apps load instantly, etc.  The device is physically beautiful.  It has been in and out of my pocket for a few weeks, and there is not a scratch to be seen anywhere.  It looks as nice as they day I unwrapped it.  The screen is also very nice; it is bright and exactly 2x bigger than the iPod Touch's.  The device still fits into my pocket OK, although it is a little bit bigger than I would consider ideal for that.  (I have the 32G flash version.  If you get a hard disk version, 160G or 500G, it's not going to be easily pocketable anymore.)
Software-wise, the default firmware this device ships with is total crap.  You will see a lot of 1 star reviews here, and it's for that reason.  The reviewers got the device, turned it on, and nothing worked.  The default firmware is buggy, the built-in apps don't work right, the media player crashes like crazy, and it is generally frustrating.  Archos really should have delayed the release of this thing by a month or so (but then wouldn't have gotten the free testing from people that paid $400 for the device).
Archos has recently fixed this, however.  They have been good about releasing firmware updates every week or so.  (Archos has a bad reputation for abandoning devices, so I was worried what I was shipped was The End.  Not so, anymore.)  With the latest firmware, everything I want working works.  All of my favorite Android apps work great.  The media player plays my music and videos perfectly (they even added Japanese fonts to the media player after I requested them!)  Random videos from the Internet play fine, and so do H.264 MKVs I generated from my DVD collection.  If you can watch the video on your computer, odds are it will play on the Archos device without any re-encoding.  Just copy the video to the device, and start watching.
The web browser is also awesome.  It is super fast, and if you are OK with a small font, pages render just like they would on your desktop.  You feel like you are using a small computer, not a big phone.  So if you want to go have a cup of coffee somewhere with free wifi and want something to read, this device is the perfect thing to have with you.  (When I do the same thing on my phone, I never quite feel like I am really enjoying the experience.  With the Archos, I enjoy the experience :)
So bottom line, if you have Wifi and can update the firmware, you should get this device.  It is the perfect media player and mobile web browser.  It has better hardware, better codec support, and more extensibility than anything else available.  And, the extensibility doesn't come at much "user experience" expense.  If you can copy files and read labels on icons, I don't think this is any harder to use than an iPod Touch.  (And of course, if you have FLAC music or MKV videos, they are simply incompatible with anything Apple ships.  But if you have the Archos, they play perfectly.)