ID: B002Q8HNFO-R2DP6OBS63QHL9-A2QZO7LRVXRES3
Category: Laptops
Product: K50IJ-X8-15-6-Inch-Versatile-Entertainment-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2QZO7LRVXRES3
ReviewerName: Klemmaniac "Klemp"
Date: January 6, 2010
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 4.0
Title: good but not great
Content:
I've owned this laptop for 2 days and it is working with no problems.  Since it carries the Asus brand name I am expecting it to work for some more years, and hopefully that will be the case.  I would recommend this laptop as a good basic entertainment/business/internet/general use laptop, since with a lack of a separate video card, people who play serious games, or users who require uber-fast processing and computing power will be disappointed.  I personally was hoping it would be a bit more agile than it is, but I think it is fast enough for users who aren't picky and count how many seconds windows takes to load, and after the mail in rebate, for the price one cannot really complain-a good deal.  Bloatware that comes with it is not too overwhelming-Microsoft Office trial, Micro Trend anti-virus trial, and Asus utilities-took me about 20-30 minutes to clean the computer up-but some may find the utilities useful and/or entertaining.  
The external build of the laptop is fairly sturdy and I was happy about that since I'll do a lot of travelling with it.  It's a little bigger than I expected, but actually feels as heavy or lighter than my old 14" HP laptop.  The screen is nice a big for those who like that.  A couple of parts seemed cheaply built to me in contrast with the rest of the laptop-the first is the battery casing, which contained some bent, pealing sticker like silver lining(maybe happened during shipping??), and the cover for the battery is thin plastic which didn't secure completely flat and straight to the laptop after installation-perhaps because of the pealing sticker material on the inside of the case.   I'm also a little worried about the keyboard; it feels and looks cheap and flimsy, and I am wondering if a key or two will pop off at some point--hopefully this won't happen.  The number pad keys are a little smaller than the rest of the keyboard which doesn't feel small to me (I have fairly big hands).  I do find myself typing more typos than usual since the keyboard is not elevated, maybe I am just not used to it yet.  The outer casing is very glossy/shiny and reflects a lot of light and fingerprints (personally I don't care about that, but some people seem concerned about it)--same with the LCD screen which would be very hard to see and use outdoors depending on light and position.  The touch pad is slowly but surely becoming easier to use - at first it seemed hard to glide my finger over it smoothly because of the material, and you may need to adjust the settings for this device and download the latest drivers from the Asus website to optimize it for your hand and feel.  
Starting up the computer was simple, everything worked including the wireless network adapter with no additional installation software.  As I said personally I was hoping it would be a little more "snappy" with a T6600 Dual core processor, but keep in mind that the Hard drive is 5400 RPM (not 7200), so that may be what I am used to and missing.  Again, for under $600 after rebate-the performance is more than acceptable.  The hard drive is partitioned into 2 drives both about 250GB each (not counting a hidden backup partition of about 14GB)-one containing the OS, and the other left blank for other data.  You can use 3rd party software tools found online to re-size it if you want.  I did not reformat or use the recovery disks provided, so I can't comment on how effective that option is. 
 The sound and speakers on this laptop are better than I expected reading reviews about them.  They are loud enough for me, though I had to snoop around in Windows to raise all the volume settings to my liking, but I don't find them too quiet as some other reviewers have; Of course they're not going to compete with a decent pair of external speakers.  I don't use the laptop for Home Theater purposes, so can't comment on those features if it has any.  This is a solid laptop for the most part, noting the small exceptions above, and I would recommend it unless, obviously, you can find a better deal--with the rebate (which does come with some instructions and "hoops" to jump through-if read slowly, and followed carefully I don't think they're too overwhelming).  
The selling point for me was the T6600 processor combined with the $[...] rebate.  All of the other laptops I looked at in this price range with similar specs, usually came with a T4300 or slightly lower model processor.  For my purposes, I personally would not have bought this laptop if not for that, mostly because it's a little bigger than I'd like, and I'm skeptical about the cheap feeling keyboard (I will travel a lot with it and don't need parts falling off-we'll see).  But as it stands this is a very good deal IMO.      
Update: Battery live for me has been about 3 1/2 hours average.  After owning the laptop for over a week I do have a couple of gripes worth noting.  The touchpad leaves much to be desired in my opinion-the material is not conducive to smooth gliding of the fingers and the buttons aren't particularly comfortable to use since they require a little pressure (not much, but combined with the disagreeable finger pad, using the whole thing becomes more cumbersome than it should be-the touchpad on my old HP is more comfortable to negotiate).  The keyboard still feels cheap, though no keys have fallen off...yet.  I wound up having to reformat and install windows from scratch (the recovery disk worked like a charm), because windows froze during loading after I logged in one morning.  It could have been my fault since I used some registry cleaners, but I didn't have any problems on my old computer using the same ones-granted they had Windows XP installed on them.  I still say this is a good deal with the rebate, but if you need to use the touchpad a lot, you might want to think twice.  If that's not so important to you and you don't mind plugging in a mouse, than it's not so bad.