ID: B002LF10GA-R6009FHWZ94LZ-AP9YULM7SZANN
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Aspire-AS1410-8913-11-6-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: AP9YULM7SZANN
ReviewerName: Adam Boettiger "Adam Boettiger"
Date: October 10, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: No Regrets - I returned my DELL Mini 10 for the Acer AS 1410
Content:
DAY TWO with the Acer AS 1410:
Originally purchased DELL Mini-10 but returned it after a week with it. There is a design flaw in the DELL Mini-10 that caused the extra capacity 6-cell battery I bought with it to continually fall out of the unit.
The Acer AS 1410 has been a true joy to play with thus far. I bought the Sapphire Blue color one and have only two complaints thus far on Day Two with it:
CONS
1. Speaker is located under the front of the unit and is not very loud. Plan on using headphones or purchasing powered external speakers if you wish to use this unit to watch movies on.
2. The glossy blue top, while absolutely gorgeous, is a magnet to fingerprints and smudges and is hard to keep clean.
PROS
1. Large, comfortable to use keyboard - full size or very near full size. 
2. Battery Life - I looked at the Acer Timeline 3810 and 5810 due to the battery time claims, but opted NOT to buy those models because I was looking for a smaller unit that was ultra portable and light. This unit comes standard with a 6-cell battery so no need to upgrade or worry about something sticking out the back of the unit. The interesting thing is, they claim 5-6 hours battery life on this unit but using the Power Saver setting on day 2 I am getting 8 hours of battery life easily - a VERY pleasant surprise! I LOVE having that amount of time to work untethered in such a light, small unit.
3. Screen size - 11 inches is perfect for what I was looking for. 15 inches on the Timeline series would have been too large for me. I was looking for a netbook, but this is much more than the other models from DELL or the other netbook lines.
4. Trackpad/Mouse - Originally I purchased the DELL Mini-10 from Best Buy. I quickly learned that the only units Best Buy carries are the lower-end vanilla ones. I like fast computers and I wanted one with bluetooth standard. The trackpad on the DELL Mini-10 drove me NUTS. It is very poorly designed and awkward to use. The Acer AS 1410 trackpad on the other hand, is easy to use with recessed buttons and a sensitive trackpad. For those who want to use an external mouse with this unit, bluetooth comes standard, which is really nice not to have to pay extra as an add-on as you do with the DELL Mini-10.
5. Solidity - I like my laptops to have a solid feel to them. This unit is a really nice blend of low price without sacrificing quality. I am actually a Mac user - have been using MacBook Pros for years, but wanted to buy this as a second machine to have for light use and better mobility.
6. Functional use - I purchased this unit for email, browsing, Word, Excel, Powerpoint, light coding of XHTML and CSS. Thus far on Day Two it is a joy to use.
7. Speed - This unit comes standard with 2GB of RAM. It was a no-brainer to add an extra 2GB RAM chip for $20 when I bought this. I strongly recommend bumping the RAM  when you buy this to the max of 4GB. For an extra 20 bucks you will not be disappointed with the speed increase.
8. Backup - I use and recommend BackBlaze [...], an online backup service that runs in the background while you work. If you buy the annual plan for $50/year that puts your backup costs at less than five bucks a month - well worthwhile.
I will try to update this review in a couple weeks or should I have any problems with this unit, but in general am extremely happy with the purchase of the Blue Sapphire Acer AS 1410. It's fast, ultra-portable, sexy and sleek. A joy to use.
UPDATE: 19-OCT-2009: Two weeks with this product and I still love it. Only thing I can say differently than my original review is that I had thought when buying this that it came with Bluetooth. It DOES NOT COME WITH BLUETOOTH. That's really the only drawback I can see. Other than that, this was my first ACER product purchase and it feels really solid. So much so that if I needed a larger PC I'd buy the ACER 15" Timeline. But I specifically bought the AS1410 because I wanted the small portable screen size and weight. If you buy this you will not be disappointed.
As I mentioned in my review title, I had originally purchased a DELL Mini-10 and returned that to the store. I went through so many problems trying to return the 6-cell batteries that I had purchased directly from DELL that I will never buy another DELL product again. Ever. I'm into the ACER line. They are slim, sexy and work right out of the box.
I should also mention that I am NOT normally a PC person. My primary machine is a MacBook Pro. I bought this 1410 as a second machine for light use. Love it.