ID: B002P3KMVC-R3HTFH4HD8229F-A3HMCMSPYVMSUC
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30A-X5-Light-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A3HMCMSPYVMSUC
ReviewerName: A. Mueller
Date: December 25, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Good Value
Content:
This notebook is a great value and I would recommend it for someone who has a desktop and needs a notebook for traveling (like me) or someone who has a notebook already and needs a second one that is lighter and more compact. Wouldn't necessarily recommend this notebook as your only notebook unless you didn't need a graphics card or an optical drive but if you did, why are you looking at this notebook?
This is a thin and light notebook so that means it between a netbook (which is garbage) and a full featured notebook. Thin and light notebooks have a low voltage CPU, no optical drive, no video card (more than likely), long battery life and perhaps a SSD drive. The best thing to compare this to is a Dell Adamo. But an Adamo cost more than twice as much and it's not worth twice as much over this. For those Mac people (yes your are a people) the 13" Macbook Pro is basically the same dimensions and the same thickness however it has a graphics card and an optical drive. Even though I never owned a Mac I was contemplating it. The Mac does cost 1000, though you might be able to get one for 900 after rebate. Processor is faster too but less RAM and battery life is not as long.
Before I give my review some people complained you can't play games. Well you can play games. You just can't play games with high frame rates those would be your first person shooters and auto racing games. I don't play those games so I don't care. I played Tales of Monkey Island (great series BTW) on it for a bit and it played well. Now I won't lie to you, it wasn't as smooth as on my desktop but it played about 85% comparably. The frames didn't lag just the cursor moved slow. Could be because I was using the touchpad, I didn't have a mouse. Played well enough to enjoy the game.
You also say you can't edit video and use Maya on the computer, true. But who would want to? You need a 3 button mouse for Maya and who wants to model on a 13 inch screen with a 1366x768 resolution? The horror. Also if you are going to edit video chances are you need an optical drive and you probably would want a bigger screen as well. This isn't the notebook for that stuff. A desktop is way better for that unless you need to edit in the field on the go.
The notebook is pretty fast and good at multitasking. Photoshop 64 bit runs well on it. The notebook is also ultra quite, you don't even know it's on. It did make some noise though when I was streaming video online. That was the only time it made noise though. It also doesn't get hot when on your lap, which is great, because most notebooks are like a heating pad. I played some 1080 HD video I shot with my camcorder over an external hard drive. It played it really well no lag time or anything. This is important since I want to get an external Blu Ray drive since no computer under 1800 comes with one built-in. That's why I didn't care if it had an optical drive because no notebook has the drive I want.
Battery life test, I went on a flight across country. First flight was about 4 hours and 15 minutes. I used the notebook probably for about 3 and half hours or more. On the second flight I used it for about 20 minutes cause I fell asleep for most of the flight. So total time was probably 4 hours usage. It had about 63% battery left. It probably would go for 9 hours. Important thing to keep in mind is that if you want the long battery life you need to keep the brightness way down. I took it off the built-in settings. In order to get about 9 hours the brightness needs to be about 2 of the slider notches above the lowest settings. So the third setting in from the left. Now that isn't very bright but it is bright enough to see and do things on the notebook. If you make the screen any brighter you will lose battery life. I don't see how you can get 12 hours unless it is on the lowest brightness setting and you don't do much other than surf the web. But what's the point? So don't buy this and expect 12 hours or regular usage it won't happen.
Someone said the viewing angles aren't the greatest. Well yes if you stand up and look at the screen it's washed you can't see it. But if you are directly in front of it you can see fine. You can also view it off centered to the left and right and see the screen fine. It's like any other notebook screen. If you have the brightness as high as it goes, the screen is really bright and I do mean bright!
The only negatives are, yes it does pick up a lot of fingerprints. But so do all gadgets these days. The webcam really does suck. Not sure why they would put a 0.3MP camera in a notebook made in 2009, but they did. Not that MP is the only thing that matters for quality but still. I'll probably never use it anyway but it is nice to have if you need it. For the life of me I can't use the multi-gesture touchpad. Now I did have problems on a Mac so maybe it's just me. But I can never get it to scroll and when I finally do it is like ultra sensitive and goes all the way in that direction. Not a big deal it's more of a gimmick but maybe I'll get the hang of it.
I wish the processor was a little faster but it's still good, so thumbs up by me. For 650 it's well worth it.