ID: B002P3KMNU-R2SNRHIB54NV75-A3RIBDRUVZGIFW
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30A-A2-Light-13-3-Inch-Silver-Laptop
ReviewerID: A3RIBDRUVZGIFW
ReviewerName: sf_consumer
Date: December 30, 2009
Helpful: 10 of 13
Rating: 3.0
Title: Not Impressed
Content:
Performed a lot of research before purchasing. Bought from Amazon because I try to buy everything from Amazon! Waited a while before posting a review so that I could really get a feel for the product.
This laptop is OK. Let me start with the negatives: The trackpad button is AWFUL! The trackpad is almost as bad. That is without a doubt the biggest downfall of this hardware. I have done everything to try and make it better, but bottom line is that they are ALMOST unusable.
Aside from that, build quality is not great. plastic with flex and the keyboard feels cheap and does not use quality plastics. I pick it up from the right corner and it sounds like it is creaking and will break. The top case (not the screen) is made of cheap plastic as well. 
I won't even go into the low res webcam, lack of gigabit ethernet, lousy wireless range, graphics performance or non-backlit keyboard as I knew these things going in. Would be nice if Windows 7 was the professional version. 
I am mildly disappointed that the VT model came in a week after my purchase which seems to add discrete graphics and gigabit ethernet. They may have changed the networking chipset from something other than the lousy atheros, but I did not have the heart left to look.
All of that aside the notebook performs well. The screen isn't bad, it is the right size and weight, and the battery does last a very long time. 
Overall, I work on different computers all day long; have owned previous Asus notebooks (which were of much better quality) and am basically regretting this purchase for primarily one reason: The trackpad and trackpad buttons are just PAINFUL.
I really hope this helps someone with their decision making. I am not sure what to recommend outside of an expensive sony or apple, but I will never buy another Asus.