ID: B002PK158Y-R1HBYG4YVNQUEY-A19GSC3QMK694Q
Category: Laptops
Product: Dell-Studio-17-Inch-Laptop-Obsidian
ReviewerID: A19GSC3QMK694Q
ReviewerName: D. Arnold "ColoradoHermit"
Date: March 30, 2010
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 2.0
Title: expensive frustrations & disappointments
Content:
I bought my Dell Studio 1737 a yr ago and have been very frustrated with it. Now that I've had it for a yr they want another $280 minimum plus more $ to extend my tech support for another yr. I cant remember exactly how much it was total because they have so many different things they add to it to charge you for. Unfortunately I can not afford to pay that much for further tech help with this piece of junk. That's why I bought a new one, so I wouldn't have to keep having it repaired and updated like my old Frankenstein computer. The last yr I've had to have tech support take over control remotely to fix problems with this thing at least once a month. For about 6 months I couldn't get the DVD disc drive to work and it had a disc stuck in it that wouldn't eject. All of that I can put up with if I have to but the most frustrating and irritating thing with this is trying to type with it, like now. I have to have it tilted at about a 45 degree angle to start with and only touch it with my finger tips. If the heel of my hand touches it when I'm typing it freaks out. But the thing that gets me is the way it keeps doing weird things. Like the cursor will suddenly jump back a few words or a few lines and start printing there what I'm typing. Or a search window will pop up, it sometimes just opens a new tab in the browser or a new browser window. And what pisses me off the most is after I get a lot written, like now, it will suddenly go poof, all gone. Everything that I just spent an hour typing just disappears. I HATE IT WHEN IT DOES THAT! It doesn't matter if I'm typing in a window in Explorer like now, or writing a email in Windows Live Mail, or using Microsoft Office Word, It's a spazz in all of them. When writing a reply to a email the cursor will suddenly jump way down the page into the email I'm replying to, or way back, or just back a few spaces and start printing. That's just a few of the weird things it keeps doing. If I tried to tell all of them I'd be here all day. 
 
I've tried several times to tell Dell about it and they play dumb and keep misunderstanding what I'm trying to tell them. I don't see how somebody could have that job and be so stupid. I don't know if its the Windows Vista or the way this thing is made but I hate the **** thing. I asked Dell if I could downgrade it and have Windows XP installed on it and get rid of that stupid Vista but they said that would void my warranty and tech help and everything. I would have sent it back and tried to get my money back but my brother bought it for me through the company he worked for so I could get a discount on it. And now my tech support has expired unless I pay the extortion fee for it for another yr.
What ever you do for a new computer, DONT WAIST YOUR MONEY ON ONE OF THESE. THEY SUCK.