ID: B002Q8HK7K-RWIQ2BE9DBENS-A33UOPTAY1TIQ6
Category: Laptops
Product: UL80Vt-A1-14-Inch-Light-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A33UOPTAY1TIQ6
ReviewerName: Cornelius Suttree "Corny"
Date: February 7, 2010
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Ultralight Portable Laptop
Content:
Asus is HUGE in Asia, but was not well known to me as a laptop maker until a year or so ago when friend bought an Asus in Bangkok and she loves hers. Now I see it at Best Buy all the time, but do not remember seeing Asus in years past. So I know now that Asus makes great products and the UL80VT is no exception. It is not perfect, but it is great at what it is suppsoed to be: An Ultralight computer with an amazing battery life, an excellent design and great performance for an Ultralight. Therefore I rate it 5 star. You cannot get Uber-Performance in an Ultralight, but I am strictly a non-gamer so this computer does everything I possibly need as fast as I need.
PROS:
1. Chiclet keyboard is fine with nice key spacing and, unlike others, I have not had any problems with the mousepad while typing.
2. Case fit and finish is fine. I have not noted any problems with keyboard flex/screen fit etc.
3. Minimum of bloatware. Every computer has this, but Asus is better than most. 
4. Two year Global warranty is better than anyone else, and 1-year Accidental Damage Warranty is also extended to TWO YEARS if you Register your computer within 60 days of purchase. (Every other manufacturer would charge you at least $100 extra for that kind of warranty.) BTW, ADW is a separate online registration which then generates an email with case number for a second mail-in for the ADW.
5. Windows 7 is great - it automatically downloads software for any external device like a speech mike. I have 2 mikes, one Philips speech mike I use for work and one headset for Skype, and Windows 7 downloaded the software within seconds of plugging them in. Then when I plug in they become the default speaker, and when I unplug them the internal speakers take over seamlessly. (That was NOT the case with Vista on my home desktop where it was a huge hassle to go into Control Panel repeatedly.)
6. I have not had a chance to put the battery life to the ultimate test, but after reading countless reviews and testimonials I trust it will truly last for 8-10+ hours (if not the 11.5-12 advertised) which is long enough for an international flight and as long as I would possibly need.
7. Wi-Fi connection is great. Immediately recognized my home network and took me a minute or two to be online with this baby.
8. Making recovery disks took about 3-4 hours, but it went fine with no glitches.
9. It looks great and feels great!! It is a fingerprint magnet as commented on by scores of others, but the sleek looks are still impressive for a computer with a 12-cell battery. The black version looks marvelous - an eye catcher. 
10. An $800 laptop with a switchable dedicated/integrated Nvidia/Intel graphics option is a great deal.
CONS:
1. My biggest negative about this computer is the Mousepad/Mouse button. The mouse button is a single bar and you click on the far right or far left to right click or left click. Ths mouse button is VERY STIFF and awkward to use, especailly for Click and drag functions like to highlight text or drag something across the desk top. To click and drag I have to use two hands, one to hold the mouse button down and one to drag. If I could change ONE thing about the computer, it would be to split the mouse button (bar, in this case) in two and make it much less stiff. I avoid using the mouse button by single- or double-tapping on the mousepad, which is VERY responsive, but you still have to use the mouse button to click and drag and that has not loosened up much, if at all, over a month's use.
2. The mousepad is dimpled, but still a shiny and slippery surface. Although it allows vertical and horizontal scrolling and multiple gestures on the pad, it gets greasy feeling and then the pad does not work well at times.