ID: B002ONCBX0-R3MKM3TKTYH0M6-A1F7YL275PILPZ
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV6-1360US-15-6-Inch-Espresso-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1F7YL275PILPZ
ReviewerName: Jared R. Shoemaker "Jared S."
Date: January 28, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: great laptop
Content:
My wife and bought this to replace an older HP pavilion. We currently live abroad and had arranged for it to be brought to us by some friends who came to visit. We would have ordered a custom built machine from HP, but it would not be delivered to our friends in time for their departure. So, we went with this quick-ship model from Amazon.
This computer runs Windows 7 perfectly with a fast start-up time and no waiting when you open programs, but where it really shines is watching media. The screen is very high-end with HD resolution that makes anything from you-tube videos to hulu, to DVDs beautiful to watch. There are two headphone jacks on the front so both you and a companion can watch a movie without turing on the speakers or having to go one earbud each. When you do want to use the speakers, they are very good for a computer this size. The computer also comes with a convenient media remote control that you can store in the express card slot on the left side of the chassis. I read many reviews of HP pavilions complaining about the touch smart media controls across the top of the keyboard, but I have found these to work really well. There are 4 USB ports, super fast draft "n" wifi, VGA out for an external monitor, and an HDMI out for connecting to an HDTV. 
The only complaints we might have are rather minor. I think that the number pad on the right side of the keyboard is really unnecessary and doesn't fit well on this size computer. It also makes the keyboard and mouse pad off-center from the screen which I don't particularly like. The only other complaint is the high gloss finish on the lid and palm rests. It shows smudges and fingerprints every single time you touch the computer. I also don't really love the imprint design on the lid and palm rest either. It isn't bad, it just isn't that great to me. I much prefer HP's moonlight white imprint, but we needed this computer fast so we ordered it from Amazon instead of getting one custom from HP. The white is still high gloss, but it doesn't show smudges as badly and I think it is more attractive. I do wish that HP would go back to their more timeless liquid-metallic/silver body color and can the stupid and unnecessarily cramped "full-size" keyboard. 
This HP laptop is sturdy and well made, it runs very fast, it has lots of nice and well thought out little features like a remote and two headphone jacks, tons of ports for everything you need, and the screen is extremely good. Overall a great laptop especially considering the price.