ID: B002M3SOBU-R1D91KM6FVN3L7-A38G4QQJCB3YUY
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Generation-iPhone-Software-Installed
ReviewerID: A38G4QQJCB3YUY
ReviewerName: Amazon-Addict "Dusty"
Date: April 27, 2010
Helpful: 0 of 2
Rating: 1.0
Title: Terrible product!!!
Content:
I regret ever buying the iPod Touch, it is a waste of $200 dollars to say the least. First of all, on a good note I'm impressed with the appearance and smooth running user interface, but that's about it. The touch is just an over priced iPod with a big touch screen and an app store which is great if you want to pay for apps that you probably will never use. The quality of the head phones is absolutely worthless and on top of that they recently began shocking me while I listen to music on my touch, so I forked out some more money to get new ones which sound far better without the repetitive shock.
There is no way to put any files other then music on to the iPod touch, so if you're looking forward to using it as a data storage, it wont work. It only works with iTunes, which runs terrible on windows vista and overprices the media they sell. There is no radio and you pretty much have to have a computer to plug into if you ever want to add songs to your play-lists. Because there is no feature to add or remove songs from the play-lists on your iPod touch, you have to make them in iTunes on your computer.. There is one on-the-go play list which you can add or remove songs from, but that's it.
My iPod touch is Wifi compatible but whenever, if I ever have service it is constantly disconnecting making it a real big hassle to browse the web with, and sense I upgraded my cell phone to a Palm Pre however, my iPod touch has been collecting dust. I now enjoy far better sound quality and a more useful smart phone, with 3G so I can listen not only to my music collection, but I can text, talk and browse the web whenever, where ever without having to switch from phone to iPod or missing calls all together because I cant hear my phone over my music playing.
Save your money and buy an iPod Nano for music and video or get a smart phone for multimedia. As for games, a Nintendo DS would be a far better buy!