ID: B002CVTT70-R1TXLI9GOU6GO0-A2A5Q98OEKR4NN
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-CM5050-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: A2A5Q98OEKR4NN
ReviewerName: S.B. Anthony "Sura 4.34"
Date: March 21, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Black & Decker CM5050
Content:
If I could have waited for delivery, I'd have purchased this from Amazon.  I don't know a coffee drinker who will even wait for a day, much less up to two weeks for a coffee maker. That said, this would make a great gift for any occasion. 
I've only had this coffee maker for two weeks but that's time enough to discover quirks that might make it unappealing to others.
The coffee maker I replaced was the Mr. Coffee, IS series. It was great while it lasted, but it only lasted four years.  I expect more for my money than that.
To comapare the two above mentioned models, both brew great coffee, and the B&D CM5050 brews 12 cups in ten minutes, where Mr. Coffee took twelve. That's a plus if you don't use the auto brew.
The B&D has a big digital clock; the Mr. Coffee had a hard-to-read analog.
B&D allows you to set your brew strength, but if you like "strong", it defaults back to "regular" at the end of the brewing cycle, so it must be reset with each new brew.  Mr. Coffee saved the option; I liked that.
Mr. Coffee allowed a temperature control for the hot plate (a plus in my book), B&D doesn't, and the coffee is scalding when you pour it.  Mr. Coffee also has a special cleaning cycle, this B&D doesn't. 
The permanent coffee filter in the B&D is a great addition.  I hesitated using it because of my poor experience with permanent filters. If you've rejected the use of these permanent filters because of a fine silt that settles in the bottom of the carafe, this permanent filter allows none of that.  Use it; it will save money on paper filters.
I haven't used the 1 - 4 cup brewing feature.  I brew a full pot in the morning, and never drink coffee for the remainder of the day.
My main complaint with B&D is the preset warmer plate, but all other aspects are either equal or superior to the Mr. Coffee.  So, it's a matter of personal choice.  I would have been happy to buy another Mr. Coffee, but I really expected a longer lifespan.
When I went "pot shoping", the B&D won because it was $10 cheaper, and I was already disappointed with the premature death of my Mr. Coffee.  If this brewer dies at four years, I'll look for a new model.  So far, I'm pleased with what my money bought.