ID: B002PAQXCM-R27L2305ZKU1V9-AP4OOU967X7ZI
Category: Laptops
Product: N81Vp-D2-14-Inch-Versatile-Entertainment-Windows
ReviewerID: AP4OOU967X7ZI
ReviewerName: Robert Bloom
Date: January 7, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Mostly great!
Content:
The ASUS N81Vp-D2 is a great laptop. It is powerful enough to handle most of today's games (currently playing Dragon Age and The Witcher on high settings)and has handled every business application I have thrown at it without a hiccup. The screen is bright and crisp although viewing angles are a little less then optimal. Not bad though. It doesn't come with 4650 vid card like is advertised. It actually comes with a 4670! Not sure how much better it is but better is good. Boot up is fast as is shutdown. Windows 7 is great although I upgraded to Win 7 Pro using the Anytime Upgrade, which went off without a hitch in less then 10 minutes. The laptop is pretty solid but the lid does have some flex and the keyboard feels "loose" in the upper left corner. The keyboard also has the "Fn" and "Ctrl" keys reversed which causes some headaches but I'm sure I'll get used to that. The built in speakers are excellent for a laptop. They sound much better if you have the laptop sitting on a table then if it is in your lap but, again, for laptop speakers they are great. 
The biggest issue I have with this laptop is the battery life. I expected it to be bad, considering the specs, but I wasn't prepared for just how bad it is. Just surfing the web on power saver mode I can get just under 2 hours. If you turn off wi-fi and just do business applications or Word/Excel type stuff, you might be able to get 2 1/2. Forget watching movies or gaming. There are no extended life batteries available either. I guess it is not a huge deal for me since I use mine mostly at home or at the office so I can keep it plugged in but it should be taken into consideration if you need to use it on battery power a lot. All in all, I'm happy with the purchase but I will most likely be buying another power adapter so I don't have to lug it around with me.