ID: B002M3SOC4-R15JU6LTZS5VBZ-AEL6CQNQXONBX
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-touch-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: AEL6CQNQXONBX
ReviewerName: Cute Chihuahua
Date: April 2, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Ipod touch can do so much!
Content:
I have now owned my Ipod Touch for over 3 months and I still love it as much today as the first day that I got it. It can hold a ton of music and video with the 8 GB memory and I reasonable number of applications. Currently I have about 650 songs, 10 music videos and over 100 applications and I still have about 1 GB of memory leftover. If you are considering buying an Ipod Touch with larger memory I would really consider whether or not you will ever need that much space because I think this model has plenty of memory for the average user. The music function of the Ipod Touch is very similar to my previous 3rd Generation Ipod Nano. The main difference is that it has an option to shake and change or shuffle the current song. One other option is Genius which will create playlists for you and suggest songs that might be to your liking. 
The Ipod Touch is really a lot like a laptop that fits in the palm of your hand. You can browse the net and do most everything you can do on a laptop except you can't view video's that require flash player because it's not compatible with the Ipod Touch. 
You can also download applications directly from I-Tunes and there are thousands of applications to choose from with many being added every day. Most of the applications are no more than a dollar a piece. For that charge you can add them to multiple Ipod Touches if you have them setup on the same I-Tunes account. There are also many free applications that are a lot of fun. Often when a new application is released, they will offer it free for a limited time in order to get people to try and rate it. It pays to check the I-Tunes store everyday because you never know what you will find. 
The Ipod Touch has a built-in and hidden speaker which is nice but don't expect amazing sound from it. You may want to consider purchasing exterior speakers for better sound.