ID: B002OJ9WVS-R2MIGLU17WVN3H-A34W7BLFO6Z8AW
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-S4212-Canister-SBD450-3-Combination
ReviewerID: A34W7BLFO6Z8AW
ReviewerName: Cindy H.
Date: November 4, 2009
Helpful: 14 of 14
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Little Machine!
Content:
After researching vacuums for a while, I finally settled on a Miele.  The machine is about half the size of many other canisters on the market and fairly light weight.  The canister has the option of setting on its back (like in the picture) to be used on stairs and for easier storage.  There is a clip feature so you can station your wand in the upright position.  The onboard tools are easy to access.  The best part about this machine is the telescopting pole which when fully extended, I don't have to bend over to vacuum.  Plus I was able to vacuum the top of my drapes without moving my couch.  
The model I bought did not come with the turbo head, and the standard head it came with is great on smooth floors and ok on medium pile carpet. It has a rigid brush that can be retracted and the head when pulled back toward you will lift the pile but doesn't push forward easily.  Having to lift the head to replace it for the next row to vacuum is a little strain on the back and tedius.  Another option is to retract the brush and then push back and forth and with the amazing suction, the carpet pile did stand up better and the carpet looked clean. But I think the turbo head would be more efficient. 
If you have hardwood floors and area rugs and a few rooms with carpets, you might be satisfied with standard head that comes with this model, I think I will go ahead and buy the turbo head as I have medium height, thick pile carpet in my living/dining room.  
Optional accessories are a car kit with a small turbo head, and other conveniences, a small items kit with small hose and accessories for cleaning small objects like porcelain figures, etc.  
Very pleased with purchase and would definitely recommend to others.