ID: B002L6HDRE-R2EPZZSONSWUHF-A3TTC70GZ9SH3S
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Green-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A3TTC70GZ9SH3S
ReviewerName: Pocha Dot
Date: December 30, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 8
Rating: 3.0
Title: Bitter...
Content:
Positive: 
I upgraded my iPod Shuffle to the iPod Nano. I'll begin by mentioning all the great stuff about it first. I always saw the commercial for this thing but I didn't realize it had a radio, Which is HOT, I've been discovering all the music i've been missing out on due to "Lack of radio" before. So that works, I love the video camera that is so NEAT! I can record up to (8) hours straight through, WOW! that's still unbelievable to me that I have a video camera that records at that length on something a little bigger than a pack of gum, So convenient.
Negative:
Am I bitter?... Yes, Okay the battery life is SO SHORT on this thing, Don't you dare browse your library while listening to a song, Why?... Because you "NEED" the backlight to be on. Without it you can't see a thing, The LCD window is tinted so dark that you have absoulutely NO CHOICE in having it on or not and it DRAINS the battery VERY FAST. I charged this thing for over an hour and I listen to songs for 10 minutes and the battery is already a 4th gone, And yes EVERY 10 minutes after that the battery is just being drained. I tried turning the backlight to 2 secs and that's even worse because the frequent ON and OFF of the light BURNS out the battery life. I Hate It!
 
Now let's talk about the microphone... What's the point in it?, It sounds EXACTLY like headphones turned on MAX, You'll get the SAME exact effect by turning some headphones up and leaving them out of your ears.
Next, A video camera but you can't snap a photo?... What's up with that? You can upload photos to an iPod that can't produce a photo but has a video camera... Hmmmm this makes so much sense doesn't it?
You can TAG songs from the radio which means if you hear a song you like on the radio instead of needing paper and pencil handy to remember what you've heard you can TAG it and it will store the Name of the artist and the song title in the "Tagged songs" menu... But don't you dare let the song titles sit to long, They automatically clear after a VERY small amount of time. What if I want to remember what I heard and I'm not ready to purchase or look the song up that I tagged until the day I'm ready to buy the song? I might as well use the paper and pencil.
Same thing applies for the "Recently heard songs" list.
There's also A feature called "Live Pause" which is so cool if you want to "pause" the "Live" radio and rewind back to what you've already heard. I think that's pretty decent but it's a tease. 9 x's out of ten if you want to hear something again, You most likely would like to "save" it for later playback, So yes... You got it... Turn the station and it's gone forever. So if you want to hear something that your "live Pause" picked up over and over again you better not change the station or turn the iPOD off. Hold on for dear life to that "one song" that was so great for the moment. AGAIN A COMPLETE TEASE (What's the point?), That's just another way for people with bad nerves to get EXTRA aggrivated about something else in their lives, It's the little things.
Overall it's okay anyone who recieved this as a gift or purchased it for themselves knows that there's something better on the market. It does'nt take a genius to know that this is NOT the best of it's kind, So many things about this iPOD is pointless and makes no sense, The product seems unfinished and unfinilized. So many shortcomings in such a small device, Seems with so many NEW features things should go a lot smoother, be more improved and less complicated. Guess NOT.
If you're thinking about purchasing this iPODnano, I would consider all other options before making this purchase. This should be a last resort, Again I'M MORE THAN SURE you can find something much more worth your money than this non-sense. Trust me, The last thing you need is for an "iPOD" to be adding more frustration to your life, This device should be an escape from stress and worry, Not something that should add to it, We all work hard for our money right?... So that being said...