ID: B002C25O8C-RIEFI6UBZOBKZ-A1NBKKYPBOCT7L
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Aspire-Timeline-AS5810T-8952-15-6-Inch
ReviewerID: A1NBKKYPBOCT7L
ReviewerName: Calvin S. Chen
Date: July 23, 2009
Helpful: 19 of 22
Rating: 2.0
Title: Disappointed, me too.
Content:
Last week I bought one 5810T through TigerDirect as a replacement of my current Hp 6820s. The Hp one is still working fine. But it has run out of the storage space. Plus I wanted a smaller/lighter notebook but still has number keys as in 17" ones. So Acer's 5810T fits my requirement perfectly.
 
When it finally arrived, it was, like some of the folks had experienced, a DOA :-(((, 
After I pressed the Power button, I heard a couple of small clicks from the HDD and the DVD. The fan was running. The white LED light of the power button was on. The green light of the wireless was on (steady). The battery was being charged (orange light first then to turned to blue). But the blue light of HDD was on only for around one, two seconds. And nothing was on the screen (dead black), not even the initial system/BIOS information.
Roughly 5 to 7 seconds later, the notebook shut down by itself. Wow!! Then 2 to 3 seconds later, the notebook turned on by itself!! Amazing!! But still, there was no response from the whole notebook (Keyboard, touch pad, eject button,..., etc) and still no display at all.
I have tried to turn it on and off many times. And at one time the notebook finally decided to boot up. So I continued to follow the step-by-step setup process on the screen. But then the notebook froze in the middle of getting the O/S (shipped with Vista Home Premium 64bit) configured. Again, nothing was showing on the screen (dead black). And there was no response from the whole notebook.
Called TigerDirect then got a replacement 3 days later. The second one has been working fine for 3 days so far. I've reinstalled it with a Vista Business 32bit O/S. And to make the Vista Business 32bit working properly, I had to visit Acer.com to get 10 different drivers downloaded. The drivers/applications supplied with the notebook are only good for 64 bit O/S. I cannot use the 64bit O/S because Cisco's VPN client does not support it.
Anyway, I've copied more than 100 GB data (more than 200,000 files in total) from two different external USB drives. I did not run into any trouble when copying/moving these files, only the transferring speed was much slower than I anticipated.
So, it sounded good for my 2nd one, right? Sorry, not really. There are two serious QA related issue. The first is about its keyboard. The whole keyboard will just pop up from time to time. It seems to me this keyboard set is not properly assembled to the notebook's chassis. So the clicks around it will not hold the keyboard in place. Or those clicks are not long/big enough to keep the keyboard down. Very often I have to push the top two corners and the top edge of the keyboard so it will be back to its position ("click", "click", "click", and "click").
The second is there is a dent around the "eject" button of the DVD drive. And the surface of whole metal piece is no not smooth at all when I looked at the notebook form the side. I also found a small bump located on the opposite end, close to the "Power" button. Could it be this notebook was "squeezed" somehow before it was packed? The 1st (DOA) notebook does not have such issue with its keyboard nor is has any "dent" when I compared them side by side.
So I was so disappointing and wanted to return this replacement one as well. But I just don't have the luxury to do so due to the demand of my work loads. Otherwise, I will definitely ask for another replacement immediately. Oh well, I will continue to try to live with it till one day the keyboard refuse to go back to the position.
I had owned two Acer Notebooks in the past. One is Travelmate 602 and the other one is Travelmate 630. Also I have owned three different Hp/Compaq Notebooks plus an Apple Powerbook. I have never had such a BAD experience like this.
Acer used to make excellent notebooks. I guess this is not the case any more from my most recent experience. The Timeline series is certainly a product with very good potential to make Acer moving closer to their goal to be the #1 NB brand in the world. And from Acer's website you can tell they do have a big hope of the Timeline. It is really a shame that a good design turns into a lousy product.
What Acer needs now is to visit their contracted manufacturer, at KunShan/ShangHai China, which makes this series (Aspire Timeline 15'6 inch series). They need to review the assembly/testing/packing process seriously. I am not sure how much time Acer and the CM had done during the initial FAI process. Either the process is not being followed well in their factory, or the OEM supplier is not making/testing key components per the specification, then the QA/PE in the factory also failed to discover these (obvious) defects.
Brand recognition, Product Reputation and Customer loyalty all takes years to build. They could be all gone just by one simple mistake. Acer, I hope you are listening. Because your acer.com/us was not accessible for around one hour when I was writing this review..... Gee, what a (another) disappointment.