ID: B002C7446A-R2H1FMYT9R6V0G-A4TADI0YZ1ZT8
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB991LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A4TADI0YZ1ZT8
ReviewerName: AmazonCrazy
Date: December 7, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Lifetime Windows user converted
Content:
I received this from Amazon within a week from ordering it for 200 dollars cheaper than I would have gotten it from the Apple store.  I also received free shipping.  When I got it, it was a beauty - from the way Apple packages to the actual laptop.  It's very simplistic - the laptop, the power cord and user guide.
The machine is really beautiful - like a work of art, but the real power is the machine and the OS.  Setup was easy enough - it took me about an hour.  Unfortunately, I chose the wrong wireless network during setup (it was late at night) and it took me while to resolve the issue.  I restarted my wireless router, modem and laptop - after doing this for a while and entering and re-entering the WEP key it finally got online.  When I finally did get it online, I was able to register with Apple and do all the software/OS updates.
I've used Windows my whole college and working life - this wasn't too bad of a transition.  I use shortcut keys heavily with Windows - I prefer minimizing the use of the mouse/track as much as possible.  The shortcut keys are still taking some time for me to get used to, but I'm sure I'll learn them eventually.
Boot up is fast! So is waking up from sleep!  I still like Windows - and I was able to play with Windows 7 for a few days and was impressed.  But I think the MacBook Pro and Snow Leopard will soon be my favorite.  
I should mention that after a long resistance due to using Windows Mobile and Palm phones (both of which I enjoyed), I decided to try the iPhone 3G over a year ago - the iPhone was a great deciding factor in my decision to eventually getting a Mac.  I never had buyers remorse getting the iPhone and I'm pretty sure I won't have buyers remorse with the MacBook Pro.