ID: B002OOWBZW-R22R6OKT9JRZL1-A3CW9FAFEUE4B8
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-T135-S1310-13-3-Inch-Ultrathin
ReviewerID: A3CW9FAFEUE4B8
ReviewerName: Chris McInnis
Date: January 5, 2010
Helpful: 6 of 11
Rating: 1.0
Title: Another dud by Toshiba
Content:
Well, what can I say. I fell in love with this laptop in the store and had to have it, in fact I bought two and planned on using them as primary computers in my home. While this laptop looks absolutely beautiful, it has some VERY seious design flaws. Have you herd the term: bag of *#!&% in a pretty bag? I have just returned my forth unit. First and foremost, if you are planning on doing any video streaming or watching/listening to any type of file with sound, dont purchase this machine. I have owned several laptops and this is by far the worst sound (non existant) I've ever heard...or didnt hear. Toshiba actually put the speakers under the machine!! If you use this laptop on your lap (LAPTOP) or any flat surface, you wont hear a thing! (yes the volume was all the way up and I have perfect hearing). In fact, I actually re-installed the sound card driver because I just couldnt believe the speakers were designed this way?? Really really poor. The second design flaw is the mouse. If you do any research online regardng this issue, you will find that everyone is having trouble with the mouse pad freezing depending on where you tap, and it and doesnt come back without re-installig the drivers. Well, its true...I did it on all four machines I returned. And, if all that wasnt enough, the keyboard is so slick, your fingers actually slide off the keys. I mean like glass. This issue certainly isnt the end of the world and if this was the only issue, I would more than likely still own the laptops. The first two mentioned, however, are serious issues and really unacceptable. Its really a shame because this computer could have sold really well, but not being able to hear videos on youtube, watching/listenig to streaming music, or any website with sound, is just crazy!! The mouse issue is mind boggling.
In a day of streaming media, HD content and click happy websites, shame on you Toshiba. I would  really love to know who thought putting speakers under a laptop was a good idea.....