ID: B002OJ9WVS-RNEZBV2LDH5MH-A3EPHBMU07LZ50
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-S4212-Canister-SBD450-3-Combination
ReviewerID: A3EPHBMU07LZ50
ReviewerName: Penmouse
Date: August 12, 2009
Helpful: 38 of 39
Rating: 5.0
Title: In a love with a vacuum cleaner...never thought I'd write that...
Content:
I never thought I'd fall in love with a vacuum cleaner but I have. Yesterday the FedEx delivery person delivered my Polaris canister vacuum cleaner. I opened the box and found this beautiful powder blue lightweight vac. The literature states it weights 14 pounds, if I remember right. Whatever the weight this vac is very light and maneuverable. It also cleans like a whiz. I swept all my laminate flooring using the Polaris vac and never once did dirt go flying across the floor. The old vac used to "sweep" up the dirt but usually caused the dirt to fly all over the place. I then used the Polaris vac to sweep up some accidentally spilled cat litter. No problem. The cat litter was gone without ANY of it flying anywhere. The dust brush, crevice cleaner and upholstery brush all slide onto the holder which snaps onto the hose. The dusting brush is of excellent quality and the brushes are soft but firm enough to dust well.
Pros:
Lightweight
Maneuverable
Casters that go all in all directions so the vac does not bump into walls or furniture
Metal wands
Collapsible (telescoping) wands 
Well made attachments. The dusting brush is soft but firm enough to dust well.
Retractable cord.
Quiet
Powerful suction. I've never used a vac that had this much suction. No kidding!
True HEPA filtration
Added Sept. 23:  Love the ease of removing and replacing the vacuum dust bag. There are pointed arrows on the bag, and on the bag holder attachment, so there is no mistaking on how to insert the bag correctly. Very well thought out.
Cons:
The vacuum attachment holder falls off the hose. Perhaps that's due to operator error. I don't know. I will update this review if things improve. Update:  Figured out there was a clippie like thing to attach the holder onto the hose. Works well after doing it right.
The power cord could be a bit longer. 
Overall, very pleased with the operation of the vacuum. It is quiet, lightweight, offers excellent suction and true HEPA filtration. Sept. 23 Update:  Still love the vac. More so than ever as it's the easiest and best vac I have used. High marks!!
Highly recommend.