ID: B002TDRA0E-R16P41ZROBOFPE-A1AJ9Z9DQDO0VQ
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-Delphi-Canister-Vacuum-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1AJ9Z9DQDO0VQ
ReviewerName: Molly M.
Date: November 20, 2009
Helpful: 35 of 35
Rating: 4.0
Title: First Miele Vacuum
Content:
First of all let me state that this is my first Miele vacuum.  I've not laid hands on a Sebo, Riccar, or Miele (except briefly in a store) before receiving the Miele Delphi.  In the past I bought what was cheap and hoped for the best.  Lately I've changed that philosophy and research everything diligently.  Consider in my review that I don't have experience with premium vacuums prior to this one (and even though it's at the bottom end of the price range I think $500 is premium for a vacuum cleaner).  
This vacuum replaces a Kenmore upright that lasted 10 years.  We were never really satisfied with it though.  It's performance was mediocre and it always had belt problems.  The beater was driven from the main motor by means of a cheap idler pulley arrangement (so that it could be disengaged for bare floors) which was a weak point.  Like many uprights it was heavy and fell over easily when using attachments.  Our house is 50/50 bare floors and low carpets.  It did poorly on bare floors, particularly the tile in our bathrooms.  
We use a vacuum to clean all the floors, upholstery, for dusting, and cleaning out the cars.  
After a lot of research I decided on these priorities:
*  Sealed system.  Why clean if the dust is shooting out all over everything as you go?  
*  True power brush.  Even though we have low carpets it was pretty clear that the combo tool would not cut it.  Nor was I impressed with the turbo brush at the store.  It's very convenient to flip a switch and go from carpet to bare floors.  I realize that there are specific brushes for bare floors, and we may get one eventually, but they seem very expensive for what you get.  
*  Quality construction.  Means a lot for me and I'm willing to pay for it.  I'm practically an expert appliance repairman from working on all the junk appliances we bought for our new house 10 years ago.  First world construction AND assembly is not everything, but it goes a long ways.  
*  HEPA was not a necessity.  We don't have dust allergies.  The ability to upgrade is a nice plus, but for now I just don't think we need it.   
So why did I choose the Delphi?
If you are confused about Miele's model selection join the club.  To sum the it up (canisters only):
S2 series, larger bags, powered and non-powered hose models tools mount on base of hose.  
S4 series, smaller bags, non-powered hose models only, tools mount of base of hose.
S5 series, larger bags (same as S2), premium line, powered and non-powered hose models, tools mount inside.
Differences within the lines largely involve attachment packages and the type of controls on the vacuum itself.
Models with a non-powered hose cannot use power accessories.  You cannot add a powered hose later.  There are no provisions to power it.  You are stuck with the turbo (air powered) brush heads only.  As I said earlier I was not satisfied with the performance of those.  All the new models with powered hoses have direct connect.  That means when you connect the attachment the power plug is attached as well.  There are no extra wires to connect.  Some older models required extra wires which I would find inconvenient if you just wanted to change over the dusting brush for a quick second.   
So on to the Miele Delphi: 
The item arrived well packaged with clear documentation and only reasonable assembly required (~3 minutes, no tools).  There are separate manuals for the power head and vacuum.  
The included power head is the SEB 217-3.  It is about 10 1/2" wide with no light bar.  It is a couple inches narrower than the power head on most vacuums.  Miele has a larger one available that would work on this vacuum for around $250.00 (half the cost of the entire thing).  Consider that the wider the power head the more your suction is dispersed.  As the suction on the Miele is excellent I think it could certainly power a wider head just fine, but unless you have a very large home I think it would be unnecessary.  Probably more important to that decision is the type of carpet.  The 217-3 is designed for lower nap carpets.  It has no height adjustment.  I suspect it would be very hard to push on higher carpets.  On high suction it can get tough to push on medium to low carpets, so consider that if you have deep carpeting.  It does well on bare floors and I run it at the highest setting for this.  You can actually see the dust being pulled under from a couple inches out front of the head.  
The head has a swiveling attachment and as such it is very maneuverable.  It also lays nearly flat, but not completely so, for getting under things.  The head itself is very low profile so I can get under things I couldn't before.  The wand appears of very high quality stainless and the plastic latches for extension and connection appear of similar high quality and function.  
The so called "deluxe" handle has a single switch for the power head which is a necessary convenience.  I would not consider one without this.  A second switch to power the vacuum on and off would have been a nice addition, but it's not a necessity.  
They claim the power hose is crush proof and strong enough to support the weight of the vacuum plus some but I have no reason to test it.  The hose is free to swivel 360 degrees at the handle end but not at the vacuum end due to the connection for the power head.  It doesn't swivel all that well and it may take me a little getting used to it, but like I said I've never used a canister.  As I mentioned there is a separate plug on the base of the hose for the power head.  The S5 models have a plug integral with the hose.  You have to unplug it to open the bag chamber but that's not a big deal.  
The vacuum itself has very strong suction.  It's adjustable of course by means of a knob on the top of the body.  I noticed some dust on the bottom of the vacuum so decided to vacuum it off and pulled the label right off the base as well!  It is fairly quiet, but noticeably louder with the small attachments due to drawing the amount of air it is through such a small opening.  The cord reel works well.  It rides on 3 independent caster wheels and maneuvers very well.  The small attachments mount to a bracket on the base of the hose.  They stay there well enough but the bracket nor the attachments are awe inspiring.  Then again, what do you expect. 
The bag compartment door opens by a latch at the front of the vacuum body.  The cover seems pretty flimsy when open so be careful with it in that position.  It looks to be held in the open position only by plastic detents in the hinge.  Plastic hinges are also used on the motor filter door, but considering that this only needs changing with every 4th or 5th bag shouldn't be subject to a lot of wear.  The bag compartment holds a factory installed g/n bag with a hinged closure to prevent dust leakage.  By the time you open the compartment it is already closed.  Removal and replacement couldn't be easier.  For all the talk of a sealed system this Miele relies on a tapered plastic to plastic joint to achieve it.  I expected to see a rubber gasket of some type around the bag chamber but it's not to be found on the Delphi.  I think the s5 models have one and this may be what is meant by their double seal.  I don't have any way to test it, but it certainly seems air tight.  I suppose the motor's suction makes it even tighter when it's running.  
As I alluded to earlier, the Delphi comes with a thin, non HEPA, air filter.  You can buy one any time you want to put in, but at $53.00 I wouldn't get it unless you really need it.  The thin "super clean" air filters come included in each box of bags.  I assume if you don't have a model that originally came with this thin filter you will need to locate a carrier to hold it as it is much thinner than the HEPA filter.  Kudo's to Miele for making this an option.  Ongoing operational costs are something to consider with any appliance.  
In summary I'm pleased with the S2120 Delphi.  It has exactly the features I was looking for and I was willing to pay the higher price over something like an Electrolux Oxygen 3 in consideration of Miele's excellent reputation.  At it's heart you get the same motor and suction as the higher priced models.  My main concern is the durability of the plastic door, in particular it's hinges.  If they break your vacuum is useless.  Perhaps my fear is unwarranted. My four star rating is what I consider excellent for a new product.  For me five stars would need to include a consideration of reliability.  It's always a gamble, but I think with a Miele a pretty safe bet.