ID: B002MZYZHU-R1QMY8LLUTZI6D-AT9U5ZE5OO84C
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Breville-BKC700XL-Single-Serve-Coffeemaker-Iced-Beverage
ReviewerID: AT9U5ZE5OO84C
ReviewerName: M. Kooiman "nerdette"
Date: November 30, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: A great cup of coffee every time!
Content:
I already own a Keurig B70 which was an upgrade from the original Keurig sold in stores several years ago.  The Breville BKC700XL has all the same features of the Keurig B70 (plus a couple bells and whistles thrown in) so I put the two coffee makers together and made the same coffee in both to see how they compared.  Both machines offer Tall, Grande and Venti and espresso sizes as well as an iced coffee size.  Most of the coffee I made in my test used the Tall and Grande sizes.  Both machines also have a temperature setting that maxes out at 192 degrees.  In my test, I made Emeril's Big Easy Bold, Coffee People Donut House and Gevalia Dark Chocolate Truffle.  The Gevalia coffee did not come in a K Cup so I could test the "My K Cup" in both machines.  
Results:  Both machines made great cups of coffee and I could not tell which machine made which cup of coffee.  It seemed as though the Breville was slightly quieter than the Keurig but it was barely noticeable and they were sitting on different tables so it may have been where the Keurig was sitting that made more noise.  Otherwise, I like both machines equally and would recommend both.
Differences:
Filter: Both machines have a decent size water reservoir so you don't have to constantly add more water.  The Breville came with a filter you could install if you don't use filtered water already.  This is a nice feature and will add life to your machine if you change the filter frequently.  I use filtered water only so I did not install the filter.  Because I've always used filtered water, I've never had to descale my Keurig but I have heard horror stories of Keurig coffee makers experiencing short lives because of hard water buildup.
Overflow:  We all overestimate how much a cup will hold or forget to put a cup under the spout before brewing the coffee and are grateful for the overflow reservoir.  The Breville takes this feature to the next level by adding a pop up device to let you know when the overflow reservoir is full so IT doesn't overflow.  
My K Cup:  Obviously the manufacturer wants you to buy K Cups but a device they call "My K Cup" is available for purchase for the Keurig.  With the Breville, they include on nicely stashed in the top of the machine.  This allows you to measure out your own coffee (like I did with the Gevalia).  The Breville also comes with a handy coffee measure so you get the right amount of coffee for the My K Cup.  I found the results with the My K Cup to be the same in Breville as I did in Keurig - weak with a few grounds. However the Gevalia is ground very fine and the instructions say to use a coarse grind with the My K cup.