ID: B002NEGTTW-R2L86W2GAP1EOX-A2K6I9R5BTMAA3
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-EOS-7D-Body-Only
ReviewerID: A2K6I9R5BTMAA3
ReviewerName: Mark C. Francis "Georgiearie"
Date: November 8, 2009
Helpful: 13 of 24
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great Camera, I am returning it though.
Content:
I love the 7D and the features that it has. I use a 1D MKIII that I have just received back from Canon after the third repair for Autofocus - fixed this time. I purchased the 7D not as a backup but to replace my 1D MKIII due to the Autofocus issues I was having - I would go to the MK IV later if everything was kosher with it, but now that my 1D MKIII was fixed to my satisfaction I will keep it. But back to the 7D. Love the Camera, great LCD, great speed, AI servo autofocus is spot on, flash control from the pop up flash, cheap wireless remote can be used, great pictures. The 1D does not have a great LCD, no flash control from the camera itself, and a dedicated expensive wireless remote is needed, Better speed and better pictures from the 1D MK III though.
I am sending my 7D back, for just couple of reasons that are biggies for me. 
1. File size is tremendous - my computer struggles under the weight of these files. Just too slow for me and having to store these files is a burden. If the picture quality were better it might be a consideration. But the 1D MKIII takes sharper, cleaner pictures at 10mp compared to 18mp. With the 7D you have to purchase large memory cards and only have space for 1 on the camera. The 1D MKIII has 2 slots and can store thousands of 10mp pics, big advantage for me.
2. I find myself tilting the 7D during sports shots, not all shots but too many for me. I guess it is the size, I never do this with the 1D MKIII. 
Again I love the 7D - if I didnt take 1200 shots every game I shoot - file size probably wouldnt matter - but for what I do - it is a biggie.
The prices for 1D MKIII's are falling due to the MKIV being released and if you can get a good one, this is your best bet if you do sports or wildlife - just great pictures, great controls, great speed. No movies, Bad LCD and proprietary flash and wireless controls. The 1D MKIII is a workhorse and just plain works - very well. ( Very large - but comfortable )
I give the 7D a 4 star due to the file size, In my opinion canon should have used a 10-12 megapixel sensor. Also, I saw some softness and noise in my pics that I was not accustomed to. Great overall though.