ID: B002ONCD4M-R38FSEUNI2K0F3-AGPV1N9QOK34S
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV6-1350US-15-6-Inch-Espresso-Laptop
ReviewerID: AGPV1N9QOK34S
ReviewerName: Erin Lindsey
Date: March 25, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: The HP DV6t models- Not Too Shabby
Content:
I probably read through every review and article on laptops out there before committing to this one so if you're a little anxious like I was, hopefully this review will be helpful to you (and I've had it for 8 months so it's not like I haven't put it to work). I bought this computer for law school and don't do any intense gaming on it (except procrastinating solitaire).
Specs since it's older: 
Screen:		15.6"
Processor: 	Intel Core2 Duo CPU T6500 @ 2.10GHz, 2100 Mhz
Memory:	        3GB DDR3 System Memory 
Hard drive:	320GB 7200RPM SATA Hard Drive 
Pros:
The screen and keyboard are big enough to work on every day.
It starts up quickly and doesn't lag when running OneNote, Word, the internet and iTunes all at the same time.
I absolutely love the finger print scanner. At first, I thought it was silly to spend the extra $20 but this way you can store the million log ins/passwords you have without letting anyone else who might be using your computer have access to them.
So far it has only crashed once and frozen twice.
The two touch buttons on the keyboard to turn your WiFi on/off and to mute/unmute are pretty handy and save you a few extra clicks.
I don't use my laptop as a boom box, but the few times I've used the speakers the quality was above average.
It's quiet, you don't get a heavy humming ever and it also doesn't get very hot when you actually have it on your lap.
Cons:
The battery life, even on `power saver mode' is 4 hours, MAX. I only used Word, didn't have my internet on/running, music playing, any external accessories sapping power and it barely hit the 4 hour mark before dying. (This is with the regular battery, not the upgraded 12 cell.)
The touch volume controller thingy on the keyboard isn't very precise, its loud and has been activated accidentally an annoying number of times. And you can't disable it, to my knowledge.
The keyboard area is a glossy finish, so you see all the oil and skin and grime and dirt you've left on it after you're done typing. It's gross and makes the computer look dirty. This may not bother other people but it really bugs me. 
The left click button on the touch pad is starting to fail (its loose and pushed down) and I haven't had it for a year. Oh and I don't "type with purpose" either.
My A/C adaptor broke even though I make sure never to smash it with books in my bag, always kept the cord wound nicely like it came and generally tried to not abuse it. That made me mad, and goes to show the quality of the material they're giving you for your money that you paid. In HP's defense, they did send me a replacement in 2 days without any hassle. But it was only the box part with the wire that goes into the laptop, and not the other half of the wiring that goes from the outlet to the box part. And they didn't tell me that so I'm happy I didn't throw my old one out expecting to get an entirely new one.
It is kinda heavy. I notice a distinct difference when it's in my bag compared to when it isn't.
All their keyboards come with a dedicated number pad. I'm good at using it so I don't mind, but I don't know how many people really need or want it. Meh.
Conclusion:
It's a decent laptop for the price. I hemmed and hawed and worried about the difference between getting a 2.10 and 2.26 Ghz processor or whether to go with an Intel or AMD chip. But unless you go straight to the top of the line, you're not really going to notice any difference. These days everyone should have an external hard drive to store their beloved music/movies/photos on anyway. If you see this laptop at a good price, buy it and I don't think you'll regret it.