ID: B0028N7442-RXOVZDCRUJRU-AGLHKLI9ZNOBN
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-K-7-Digital-Shake-Reduction
ReviewerID: AGLHKLI9ZNOBN
ReviewerName: A. Harris "A.C. H."
Date: February 4, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: New at this hobby, but I LOVE my camera!
Content:
Hi. If you are looking for technical information about this camera this is not the reveiw to read. Photography is a new hobby for me. I've always admired well-taken photographs, but am just starting, and just understanding how to shoot using something other than the auto focus function; so, I stated, this is not the reveiw to read if you're looking for anything more than a personal and lay opinion.
With that said, however, I do know a good picture when I see one!  And this is exactly what I see when I use the K7. I've only had this camera for a few weeks. I upgraded from the K 20D which was also a relatively new camera for me (had it for 6 months). What I like about the K7 is that it's lighter, can withstand rain and dust and it seems to take a clearer pic (which is saying a lot because the K 20D also took great pics). 
The only aspect of the camera Pentax could have done a better job on is the "door" to where you insert the computer cable. It's made of rubber as opposed to the same hard material the body of the camera is made out of. I worry that it may not be a durable at the hard exterior of the K 20D, but I guess only time will tell.
So, if you're looking to take great pictures(whether you're a novice, like me, or not)I think you will like this camera. Heaven knows I have A LOT to learn about how to work it, but until I do, I'm still able to take and enjoy great pics; and the idea of learning how to take AWESOME pics (based on technique) is exciting. At least I know I won't have to upgrade when I get to that point. 
I love taking pics of flowers. I recently showed some that I had developed and everyone thought they were postcards! And, this was shooting in autofocus mode! The color and clarity were amazing. You could see the smallest of details!
As I wrap this up, I'd like to let everyone know that you can take photography lessons through Ritz Cameras (I hope I can say this). I looked high and low for classes from anyone (other than on-line) without success. Then I found out how, for about $70 you can take about 6 different classes at various Ritz locations. These are great for people new to photography. Unfortunately, they spend a tad bit too much time pushing their services, but for a little over $10 a class  you do walk away with basic, yet useful information. 
So, YES! Get this camera. It's a great price and Amazon's service is always excellent.