ID: B002SIHDN4-R4ZXCJYS4CW5G-A2R63G2FXERHHP
Category: Laptops
Product: HP-ProBook-5310m-SP9300-4500MHD
ReviewerID: A2R63G2FXERHHP
ReviewerName: D. D. Odom "Gadget Girl"
Date: December 10, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: A Game Changing Combo
Content:
As of 3/11/10
Just wanted to update my review since I have now had this laptop/notebook for 4 months and use it regularly for a variety of things.
I've had absolutely NO problems with this laptop.  No, it does not come with a VGA port, but it says that in the specs.  If you want a VGA port w/out having to use an adapter, don't buy this laptop.  Although, I use the adapter all of the time to connect to my home TV via VGA and it works perfectly.  No issues.  The laptop's display produces clear, crisp pictures that also looks really good on my LCD TV.  
And no, this computer does not have an internal optical drive.  Read the specs.  If this system doesn't have what you want, again I say, don't buy it.  (BTW, I think it's silly to mark a system low for what you know it doesn't come with or doesn't have.)  If it meets your needs, it's a GREAT BUY.
I had no problem loading Windows 7 on the first try.  NONE.  So, I'm not sure why others had this issue.  Also, a comment on the quality. If you're looking for a ThinkPad type build, then you should buy a Lenovo, not an HP.  Other than Lenovo, most computers will not have that kind of build.  Having said that, I carry this laptop everywhere, including much travel, and it is VERY sturdy, and does not scratch (at least it hasn't so far.)  Short of standing on it and throwing it against a wall, I'm not sure what constitutes good build quality.
Battery life w/ the Core Duo is about 3-4 hours.  If you want longer (5-7 hours), go for the ULV (Ultra Low Voltage) processor version.  That's what it's designed for.  Also, I have not had any issues with the fan either.  Running video for a long period of time makes it kick in to barely audible, but it is no where near "vibrating" as one person noted.  
Mousepad and keyboard have worked flawlessly.  If your cursor jumps around, try simply adjusting the setting by accessing the mousepad software.  There's lots of ways to customize your settings, and this will more than likely fix any cursor or mousepad issues.  I actually love typing on this unit.  It's very comfortable.  Some may find the spacebar and/or keypad too small, but that's probably a matter of taste.  It's worked well for me and my typing style.
Fortunately, I have not had to contact customer support.  So I can't comment on their effectiveness.  Sadly, I have heard consistent negative stories, so hopefully I'll never have to.
The only criticism I have about this computer is that it collects fingerprints easily (alot of laptops do, however).   This is really just an annoyance more than anything else. If it bugs you too much, buying a laptop skin will take care of this issue. 
So, I stand by my first impressions.  This is a great laptop for business and everyday use.  I use it for both and highly recommend it.  It sounds like some may have gotten a bad unit.  If you get a lemon, I suggest sending it back!  Mind you, that could happen with any brand.
The HP Probook 5310m is still one of the best buys out there as far as I can tell.
-------------------
*Original Review*
First, let me explain my criteria.  I was looking for a thin and light full functioning notebook with more power than a netbook (of which I've owned two) and less than $1000 (which was hard to find until now), with an integrated webcame (which most laptops come equipped with nowadays), and that could handle streaming video from sights like Hulu, netflix, etc.  HP has gotten the combination just right.  With a processor that beats the standard 1+ ghz in a netbook, a large 13.3" matte widescreen, weighing under 4.0lbs, and under a grand, the Probook 5310m is a great buy.
Pros: 2.26ghz processor
13.3" widescreen (1366x768)
2gb Ram expandable to 4gb
Extremely thin
Nice, slim, business look - eye catching
Quick access web and email buttons
Matte screen
Chicklet-layout style keyboard
Sturdy and stylish build
Average batter life - 4 hours w/ a balanced power setting (and yes, I've tested this!)
Great security software included
Cons: Runs warm (but not hot) when streaming/watching video (most laptops do however)
Fan is sometimes loud
No VGA out port (requires a displayport to VGA adapter)
I've owned the Probook 5310m for just over two weeks now and have used it everyday!  Overall, this machine has done exactly what I've needed it to do.  The keyboard is very comfortable to type on.  The speakers are weak, but that's to be expected.  I rarely use the unit speakers any way.  The sound is more than sufficient through headphones or connected to my LCD TV.
I'm running Windows 7 Professional and operating multiple screens at a time is a cinch.  I've also done video editing on this computer.  Although not as snappy as my desktop, the Probook 5310m handled it just fine and without hickups.
The Probook 5310m does not come with an optical (dvd) drive, but thin external drives are avaiable nowadays for around $50 bucks.  Since I rarely use a dvd drive I was actually looking for a system without one to keep the weight down.
So, for the money you're paying this notebook is a great package.  If it fits your needs, I highly recommend it.  BTW, it's great for students and frequent travelers.  I did some video and document editing while traveling over the Thanksgiving holiday and found it a very easy experience.
Great buy!