ID: B002NEGTU6-RSD2Y1J5ELV1C-A2HNH4PKE5DPSI
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-EOS-7D-28-135mm-Standard
ReviewerID: A2HNH4PKE5DPSI
ReviewerName: Ms_Ladi "...just wandering the world."
Date: October 13, 2009
Helpful: 33 of 45
Rating: 5.0
Title: Canon's Newest Crop SLR Packs a Powerful Punch
Content:
I've had the Canon 7D for about two weeks now and after about a thousand shots: 
Introduction.  A very impressive high megapixel count for Canon's new professional/consumer digital SLR, but keep in mind that, as you approach higher resolutions, you need to ensure the lens on the SLR can resolve that much detail. Being that I only purchased the body, I'll be anxious to see how the lens kit fairs with this new camera.  The shots I've seen so far across the internet are impressive, however. The lens I've used with this camera so far is my Canon 24-70 f/2.8L.  A huge jump in ISO performance over my XSi, but that's to be expected.  I'm having troubles with focusing, but I'll touch on that in a minute. 
Image Quality.  Outstanding. Perfect Colors in comparison to my Canon G10 and XSi.  No color banding, excellent sharpness.
ISO. Canon 7D's ISO performance is great for the amateur photographer attempting to get great photos (and the semi-pros who know what their doing...I'm the former).  As I said previously, I had the opportunity to take photos in a restaurant at about the same time using the same lens with both the XSi and the 7D (different days).  The difference in quality and keeper rate was amazing!  I am one that will stop shooting at a higher ISO once the grain starts showing more predominantly, but at an ISO3200, I found pretty nice photos in a barely lit restaurant. The LCD screen is the same as the Canon 5D Mark II (3", 920K Pixels), clear and fully visible even in bright sunlight. In comparison, the Canon XSi SLR  also has a 3" LCD, but with 230,000 pixels.
Size/Build. This build of the camera is substantially well made.  It's supposed to be made of a magnesium body and weather proof.  Either way, I have no fears of taking this camera out in the elements.  It's more substantial than the XSi, and after only a few hours of shooting with the 7D, picking up the XSi felt like a children's toy.  I have small hands (ms_ladi hands), but still have no problems carrying the 7D body with the 24-70 lens.  
Video. I am not interested whatsoever in the video aspect of SLR cameras and can never understand why this feature is included.  Well, yes I can understand.  I tried out the video for a few minutes and here are a couple of things I did not like.  I also searched a few forums and found a couple of the same opinions.  When I start shooting, I have to focus prior to shooting, but if I pan somewhere else, the camera won't autofocus again--just manual. Also, while I was taking snapshots during shooting, the video paused and the sound of the picture taking was heard.  Since I'm not a fan of shooting on cameras, I'm not sure this is normal.  The playback, however, is pretty amazing...lifelike, very realistic colors.
Autofocusing.  Canon's new 7D packs 19 AF points.  It looks like Canon will be releasing a new firmware that might update their AF feature, however mine works fine.  I was able to confer with a Canon rep who referred me to various other features on the camera that lets Autofocus really shine through.  All points are covered.
Conclusion. For the price, the new Canon 7D is the most excellent camera that Canon has released.  For the amateur like myself, by itself or coupled with a Canon G10 for the "low-pro" times, one has a one-two power combination.  For the semi-pro, this is the probably the best crop to date.  The camera is intuitive enough for those new to photography to pick and learn easily, yet configurable enough for advanced amateurs.