ID: B002V37BZG-R2PHQ45EO1LYUU-A302HUX5W127U8
Category: Laptops
Product: T400S-14-1-SP9400-250GB-HDD
ReviewerID: A302HUX5W127U8
ReviewerName: Louis
Date: December 30, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 2.0
Title: Lenovo service is horrible and bad quality control...stay away!!!
Content:
I was hesitant to order this laptop from the beginning. I did my research and found a lot of people complaining about issues with them. I thought, well, usually there's a lot more people who've had no issues, so maybe I'll get lucky. I've also had Thinkpads at work and home for the last 6+ years with no issues.
This laptop gets two stars because when it does work it works good and it is a nice light laptop. That's where it ends though...
I ordered this laptop directly from Lenovo. When I received this laptop it was defective from factory, the speakers did not work. I called Lenovo and was told the only thing they could do for me was to send it to be repaired...or charge me a restocking fee.
I argued that there was no way i wanted to turn my laptop into a 'refurbished' laptop a day after getting it and I requested a replacement with no restocking fee. After a lof of hassling and 2 days worth of calls i was eventually granted the RMA.
A second order was placed by them for a replacement laptop  (exact same specs as the original). A couple of days after placing this order the price on the laptop went down considerably. I inquired about getting a price match trough the Price Protection Program (since I had not even received my order yet). I went trough at least 4 people in Customer support over the course of 2 days, but bottom line they refused to do this. 
Why have a 'price protection plan' if you're not going to honor it????
I have spoken to countless people after this and sent several emails to customer support but they have been ignored
Needless to say I am extremely annoyed at this experience. To be honest I don't even expect the refund anymore, they can keep their 200 bucks, but it really bothers me that they would treat customers this way .
Stay away from these laptops...first off quality has dropped considerably (Don't take my word for it, do a search on Thinkpad forums or Lenovo support forums and you will see issues with speakers going bad and random reboots all over the pace with these models, people going trough 3-4 of these laptops and eventually giving up). Most of all however, their customer service stinks!
After going trough 4 Thinkpads at work and home, this will be my last one! If I could get my money back and return it, I would! Thanks Lenovo!