ID: B002PY7OTE-R2PDMZG2J86B7-A11DAJ6AR3NKYB
Category: Laptops
Product: Dell-Studio-15-6-Inch-Obsidian-Laptop
ReviewerID: A11DAJ6AR3NKYB
ReviewerName: Patrick Smith
Date: February 18, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: PC gets 4 stars, Amazon gets none (but see edit)
Content:
Purchased this computer a few weeks ago for my son who is heading to college and we have been very happy with it.  Sleek, responsive, and able to handle gaming and media applications with the well-above-average video card, memory, display and processor combination.  All for under $1000.00? Impressive.  A fingerprint magnet, which bothers some, but is not a big deal to me.  Battery life is average compared to the other laptops I have owned, but acceptable, and I am confident, but admittedly have not looked, that an aftermarket upgrade at battery is available.  I have seen complaints that it runs hot, but have not experienced that, at least not hotter than any other laptop with a dedicated video card running during intensive applications and certainly not uncomfortably so.  The fan is partially blocked by the monitor, but does its job, and for long sessions of gaming I would recommend a secondary cooling device for any laptop.  I have also seen at least one review indicate that the video card was not good for gaming, but other independent reviews of the specific card and pc configuration, and my own experiences, refute that, this pc was built with demanding gaming in mind, while not sacrificing portability or versatility.
I have only one beef with the purchase.  Amazon no longer price guarantees its products.  This machine dropped in price $35.00 shortly after I purchased it (within a week).  I still had it, unopened, and contacted Amazon about a price credit, and was basically told to pound sand.  The most frustrating thing about that was I could have simply returned it for a full refund under the 30 day return policy for unopened computers, and bought another one at the new price, discounting my price savings by the 15 dollars or so in return shipping costs (I do not think the return policy covers that), and when I pointed that out to Amazon, I was invited to go ahead and do that.  To me, it appeared Amazon was effectively banking on the fact that I would not go through such hassle for such a "small" savings.  And they were correct, but only because I did not want to be empty handed for my son's 18th birthday.  So they won my business with a good price on a great machine, but lost my respect as a company for such poor customer service.  I make many internet purchases, and absent a serious reason to do so, will not be shopping at Amazon in the future.
EDIT REVIEW - after I wrote this it got me worked up all over again so I contacted Amazon a second time and low and behold I was given a 35 dollar credit!  While they deserved the smack on the nose with a rolled up paper they got for how I was treated the first time, they likewise deserve a treat and an attaboy for eventually doing the right thing.  Amazon you have won back my business.