ID: B002AURXTY-R2ZH49GZNSK88T-A19W47CXJJP1MI
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Aspire-Timeline-AS5810TZ-4274-15-6-Inch
ReviewerID: A19W47CXJJP1MI
ReviewerName: Edward Ho
Date: November 4, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent, Lightweight, And A Good Value!
Content:
The emphasis of this computer (Aspire Timeline AS5810TZ-4274) is lightweight and lasting power (8+ hours from a single charge), so if your requirement is not heavy gaming or number-crunching, I consider it quite suitable for Internet tasks such as browsing, blogging, emailing, Skyping, YouTubing, etc. and running productivity applications such as OpenOffice and Microsoft Office. Although the computer is available in three different sizes, I like the 15.6 inch model most because it has the largest screen and is still quite light to carry around.
Because the chassis is very thin, the optical disc eject button has been moved to a place just above the numeric keypad (yes, this wide screen notebook has a dedicated number keys area), so when you need to insert or eject a disc, you won't have to hunt for that eject button with your finger. The disc tray, as other reviewers pointed out, does feel a kind of flimsy; you should support it with your fingers when you are inserting a disc.
The keys on the keyboard are of the Chiclet style, like those on Apple MacBooks. The key surface is completely flat, as opposed to a regular keyboard that has a concave surface. I don't know if this has any effect on typing. It just looks different. The key surface is not matt finish, so if your fingers are oily, the keyboard would look soiled.
The trackpad is very sensitive, so if you do not need to use it, you can press the trackpad on/off toggle swtich on the upper right of it to turn it off. For reasons of speed and efficiency, whenever possible, I try to use an USB mouse connected to the computer, rather than attempt to use the trackpad on any notebook computer. The trackpad will wear out quickly if constantly used, and if you plan to sell the computer at some point in the future, a worn trackpad will drastically diminish the value and desirability of the computer. 
Acer probably wanted to save as much power as possible, as there are no indicator lights for Caps Lock, Number Lock, or Scroll Lock. The hard disk access light is a very tiny blue LED; you'd have to look at it carefully to see its activity.
The left and right speakers are located right above the keyboard area. They are also small but can generate pretty loud sounds. When I was unpacking this new computer, at first I did not notice that there was a thin, transparent film protecting the area covering the speakers and the four indicator lights. This film significantly muffles the volume of sound if you do not remove it, so if you find the speakers not loud enough, that would most likely to be the cause.
The computer is shipped with Windows Vista, but you can order a free Windows 7 upgrade from Acer ([...]), as long as you do it before its January 31, 2010 deadline. I upgraded this computer to Windows 7 Ultimate after first making restore and drivers discs, in case I want to revert back to Vista at some point in the future:) The restore discs require 2 DVDs and the drivers and apps disc requires one. The process is very time-consuming; making these three discs took almost two hours! The Windows 7 install went without any problem; it was able to detect all hardware and install all drivers! If you don't have a lot of time, you may want to consider changing over to Windows 7 without first making a backup of Windows Vista. But if there is a possibility that you may return the computer to where you bought it, then it is probably better to backup, so you can restore it to factory OS.
After the Windows 7 upgrade, the Timeline runs extremely smoothly without any problem. This model has the Intel Pentium SU2700 1.3 Ghz CPU, 3 Gb of DDR3 memory, and 320 Gb of hard disk capacity. It is so cool-running that it is nearly silent in operation.
If you don't play much games and want a large screen notebook that you can easily carry anywhere, the Acer Aspire Timeline is an excellent choice.
With Windows 7, IMO, there is less need to switch over to Apple's Mac for ease of use and/or security. This computer cost just 1/3 to 1/4 the cost of an Apple MacBook Pro 15, and it's lighter.