ID: B002JPITY8-R3FLYT35L6ELRM-A2NBGAYTIW86S9
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Video-MP3-Player-Platinum
ReviewerID: A2NBGAYTIW86S9
ReviewerName: Anthony M. Leigh "Pilot 53"
Date: January 24, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: I Love My Zune HD!
Content:
I was asking for the Zune HD, way before it even came out. I had the old Zune 30, and I liked it, but it was way too bulky, I could fit three Zune Hds into it, but I always liked how whenever a new generation of the Zune came out, Microsoft tried to put any new software features into the older Zunes. But since I had the Zune for three years, I thought it was time to move on. The Zune HD has been perfect, there is a little bit of a learning curve when you first get it, but after a while you'll get the hang of it. The entire interface is streamlined, and smooth, you can tell the Zune team put a lot of time into it. I love how it pulls up pictures and a bio on each artist, it's nice to know who the musicians really are. I am kind of disappointed by the lack of apps, but I believe the Zune will be opened up to third party develpers eventually, you just have to wait it out. In the mean time you can put creater apps on the Zune, which are third party apps made for free, It's a big pain to get them on the Zune but if you know what your doing they can help tide you over, till more official apps come out. I haven't used the HD radio feature a lot, because they aren't a lot of HD radio stations around my house, but it's a nice feature never the less. The touch screen is Very responsive, it's very smooth. Lastly the Oled screen is gorgeous and adds to the device. Microsoft has said Xvid will be added to the types of videos it can play, and that the Smart Dj feature that is now only available on the software will be coming to the Zune. I feel like microsoft is very good about taking care of it's customers, a lot more caring than apple, which just pressures you into buying a new ipod every year. Soo in Conclusion.. I Love IT, it's the best MP3 player I've ever had