ID: B002LEXA64-RI5GVZ2LZ2EY0-A1C6QF54Z3ELCY
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Aspire-AS1410-8414-11-6-Inch-Sapphire
ReviewerID: A1C6QF54Z3ELCY
ReviewerName: James Livingston
Date: September 17, 2009
Helpful: 17 of 17
Rating: 5.0
Title: Much more than I expected
Content:
After using the Acer 1410 for a while now, I feel compelled to write a review.
USAGE: I am college student who takes meticulous notes via OneNote. I have been writing my term papers using Word 2007 on the 1410 and I also find myself using the internet as a supplement to my classes. In short, I use the 1410 constantly. .
SCREEN: The 11.6" inch wide screen is large enough to be usable without long term eye strain, but still small enough to allow the overall size of the laptop to be less than my 5-Star One Subject Notebook! Even though it is a glossy screen, I have not encountered any scenario where it was unusable. Even under the bright fluorescent lights above my desk, the screen is crisp and clear. I imagine most people who find it hard to see don't know how to tilt the lid so the refracted light isn't shining in their eyes.
WEIGHT & SIZE: The overall dimensions of the 1410 are just a fraction longer than a piece of standard paper and also a fraction narrower. As I stated in the screen section, it is smaller in length and width than my notebook. It is also almost as thin as my 5-Star Three Subject Notebook. It weighs less than most of my text books. I find there is no extra strain to carry this in my backpack.
KEYBOARD: The keys are easy to press, however they are not raised much. I found it at first to be a tad difficult to touch type. But, I have since mastered that skill on the 1410. I am torn over the need for the keys to be raised more and the fact that the overall keyboard uses clean and sleek lines. The actual placements of the keys is just fine.
TRACKPAD: I don't use it. I prefer to use a mouse.
PERFORMANCE: I didn't bother to boot into Vista. Instead, I opted to install Windows 7 from a USB thumbdrive. I wiped both partitions and reformatted upon install. From start to finish it took less than 20 minutes, almost completely unattended. After shutting down the Media Player Network Sharing Service, and the Microsoft Search/Indexer Service, the 1410 breezes through everything. Not to sound over dramatic, but it is fast enough that it could easily serve as a desktop replacement for common usages. Obviously you can't do Photoshop, CAD, or 3D Modeling with the 1410, but for most usage, it will perform quite well!
BATTERY: I don't know. I have not had to run on battery yet. My classrooms have all been fitted with more than enough convenient outlets.
EXTRA: I noticed that there is a little led indicator nestled between the wifi, battery and screen ones at the bottom left. It is an indicator for Bluetooth! This would lead me to believe that this feature could be added at a later date with an upgrade.
SUMMARY: MY brother-in-law has one of those run of the mill Netbooks. You know the type: 10" 1GB Memory Atom processor, etc. He let me borrow it while I was "shopping". After using it, I was very much turned off of the Netbooks. They were almost too tiny with no viewing room and worst of all.... uber slow. I almost decided to buy a full size laptop. However, after coming across the 1410, I decided to take a chance. I had hoped it would be a spirited machine that wouldn't leave me frustrated. But I admit, I was skeptical that it wouldn't be much better than the typical Netbook. Needless to say I was quite surprised that the 1410 isn't just a little bit better, but a whole lot better! I guess thats the true advantage of being able to do 4 calculation per cycle as opposed to just 2!
SUMMARY: Buy it. It is beyond worth it, if you are wanting a faster, easier to read, Netbook.