ID: B002C25O8C-R3FBS381BR6082-AZ8KKKNYKHR3S
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Aspire-Timeline-AS5810T-8952-15-6-Inch
ReviewerID: AZ8KKKNYKHR3S
ReviewerName: Steve in ClearH20 "SK"
Date: November 9, 2009
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 1.0
Title: Worst Computer I've Ever Owned
Content:
This is absolutely the worst computer I've ever owned. I purchased this computer in September and in less than a week it was freezing up and crashing. At this point I was browsing my email and not too much more. I have had lengthy conversations with many people in India who are like robots and only have the one answer they are given on a script sheet and not too much more. I also had to go out and buy an external hard drive to perform a system restore that will wipe out your hard drive. I bought the computer after reading several reviews that raved about customer service and how Acer is the old Gateway and the cust. svc is excellent. On top of the svc people not knowing how to do much of anything you have to go thru the same procedures every time before you get to a new procedure (that doesn't work). It's now November and after fighting with tech support, level 1, 2 and 3 (level 2 and 3 are in America and actually level 3 was the rudest of all people I've dealt with) I have to pay for the shipping to Texas. They will have my computer for 7-10 business days on top of the 3-5 shipping each way. I am now looking at a minimum of 13 business days without my computer which is forever in the business world! So, in sum, I bought the Acer thinking it was the latest and greatest and I've had to spend additional $ because the computer didn't work out of the box for an external, spent hours on the phone with tech support going in circles and now have to spend my money to send it to Texas for them to fix where they swear up and down it will be perfect when I get it back. (because why should it have been perfect out of the box brand new!) 
BEWARE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! DO NOT BUY ACER!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!