ID: B002LAREDI-R3E3DF3CFOWN70-AEO637OEC31SO
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Black-Decker-CM1509-Programmable-Coffeemaker
ReviewerID: AEO637OEC31SO
ReviewerName: RoadBikePete
Date: April 19, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Not perfect, but works for us...
Content:
One of the problems I have with counter top appliances is how they take up all the counter top space.  When I looked at a display in the store, so many coffee makers were so tall or so wide or so deep, it became a search for a reasonable size coffee maker, also it's difficult to find a 6-8 cups capacity.  
The way we make coffee in our house is:  Brew coffee in the morning, nuke some milk and mix with the strong coffee. Save the rest for the following day in a stainless thermos.  Do this for both regular and decaf on various days.  We never really used the heating plate of our old Krups coffee maker.  When the coffee was brewed, it went into a cup or thermos.
This new Black & Decker coffee maker isn't perhaps for everyone.  It makes a smaller amount of coffee, it's already a thermal container and it shuts off after brewing.  We've only started using the new coffee maker, but it seems to work fine... for us.   If you want piping hot coffee, more coffee, a big impressive machine... then look elsewhere.  This reasonably sized, reasonably priced coffee maker brews a good cup, stores coffee for the next day, granted you have a microwave to heat up the coffee and milk for day two.    
The size is just right for our kitchen, the black plastic and stainless look works with our kitchen design.  You don't have to leave this plugged in...  if you just want coffee, plug in, brew, unplug... it works fine.  If you want brewing before you get up... set the clock.   One of the things I really appreciate is the lack of "special filters" like our old Krups.  You ever try to find coffee  maker water filters after a few years?  
This one is inexpensive, looks good, brews a good cup and doesn't take up the entire kitchen counter.  Good enough for me.