ID: B0028N7442-R21DIP914QS2DN-A31010RKJB3KO5
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-K-7-Digital-Shake-Reduction
ReviewerID: A31010RKJB3KO5
ReviewerName: K. Stromme
Date: February 12, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great buy
Content:
I'm a pentax guy, I probably wouldnt rate this item down under any circumstances. But, that doesn't make this anything else than a great camera. I have never used a Canon or Nikon. My track record is a Pentax SuperA from the 80ies, and most recently a Pentax *ist DL. Moving up from up from the istDL was quite a leap, and you quickly realize the differences in weight and construction. But the K7 still doesnt feel too big. It appears to be quite smaller than the recent Pentax top model, K20. 
As far as functions go, it seems to have everything you would ever need. I mostly shoot with aperture priority, or full manual when I use my old non-automtic lenses. See, that's the beauty of Pentax, and the reason I would never switch system, it has full backwards compability, lenswise.
So, does it work? 
I took my camera for a ski trip recently. I had no issues about taking it along in the slopes. It seems so sturdy and well built, that even if I would have a fall or two, it wouldnt affect the camera (I was more afraid I would break my back if I fell on the camera). And what if it would fall in the snow? It claims to be pretty weather proof, so no worries there either (even though I didnt make a big dive with the camera). 
But what I did get to try out, was the battery life, in sub freeze temperature. The battery showed no sign of use after two full days in -10 celsius. And in the evening I had the camera standing outside taking interval pictures for 4hours, in -15 degrees celsius. 
This is a new camera, with a new battery, so guess it should be good. But compared to what I have been used to, this is great.  
Also the focus seemed to work quite well. We did some action photography, ski jumping etc. And many of them were spot on (some not, but that was more caused by a stupid idea of locking focus, but with too low field of depth).
Also, the video quality is excellent
So, there you go. If you want a review with pixel tests and number crushing, go to dpreview, or wherever.
Most cameras in this category today, have all the features and qualitys you need - in the end it's all about some sort of personal preference. In my case, I stick to what I like (Pentax - I guess it has some sort of Indie-feel).