ID: B002L6HDR4-R25PM2AGI102IZ-A16WND1BVJCQJV
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-iPod-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A16WND1BVJCQJV
ReviewerName: Matt Eye "Matthew"
Date: March 3, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 3.0
Title: Good features/quality, poor battery life
Content:
I purchased this 5th Generation 16 gigabyte iPod Nano Blue (to match the doors and other things of mine that are blue in my apartment--my favorite color is orange though, even had purchased 8 gigabytes Orange at first but then cancelled and went with this I am reviewing for the best, so I had expected).
Features/Quality: 5 stars (good-excellent; a few features 4 stars)
Battery life: 1 star (bad)
Overall: 3 stars (average)
An iPod Nano has one major flaw--battery life. In no way does it live up to as advertised. Recording audio is good for 3.5 hours on full battery, not sure about taking movie clips, but I'd assume over an hour. Not sure about playback, but I would expect five to ten hours at best. This iPod pails in contrast to its 2nd Generation Nano, whose battery life is good for six hours using Micro Memo (Extreme Mac). Furthermore, SanDisk Sansa has much greater battery life--I have owned two (still have the Fuze, and it makes excellent recordings, but in 24 KHz, not CD-quality 44.1 KHz this iPod Nano 5th Generation records--both for voice memos and for video camera). When new, the Sansa Fuze recorded 11 hours of audio with the battery indicator one from the low red (you could record 12 hours in one recording to reach the 2 gigabyte file system limit on the device). Very disappointed. Due to this somewhat major disadvantage, I will have to use the Sansa. Apple should have made their Nano a bit larger, or have found room to put in a larger battery. Therefore, one star for the battery, and the remaining review five stars (thus why three stars for my review).
I don't like it, however, that you can't record audio in WAV, and choose a quality setting. Same with SanDisk Sansa--that too you can't choose format/quality, but records in WAV that all audio programs support (MP4 not as well supported).
Recording is very high-quality, and I disagree with the reviewers that say the video quality is a toy camera. It looks excellent even in low light, and very detailed. As I said, the sound quality is near-professional, not 11 KHz and tinny as many older point-and-shoot cameras had over the years. Screen is very high-quality, but you have to wipe the iPod off frequently ('fingerprint magnet'). I think it isn't aluminum body, but very hard plastic with brushed aluminum finish, very sturdy, well built, and so lightweight. Handling the iPod has a nice feel. To avoid placing your fingers over the camera and microphone, when taking a movie, hold the iPod with your thumb at the bottom, and your index finger at the top, and use your left hand's index finger to activate/save the movie (press the middle round button). I wouldn't advise a case for this iPod (the reviews don't look good), so tear off a piece of masking tape and cover up the camera, so that when you carry it in your pocket, it is protected (a permanent scratch will probably make all future movies look bad). Radio reception is excellent as well.
The bottom line: As far as gimmicky features, they work great, but battery life no matter how you use the iPod is so short-lived (again, playback would give more battery time, but still far from SanDisk at about half the price--you don't have a camera, but you can record radio, unlike the iPod Nano 5th Generation).
Hope this helps. iPod Nano 5th Generation recommended? Not for battery and price. I have to admit, I am both an Apple and SanDisk fan(atic).
Maybe Apple will see this review and make improvements to the battery, the number one reason for an average (neither excellent nor bad) review from a customer here on Amazon.