ID: B002PHM0IQ-R3KFK4FW72VML3-A37H71F56C91YJ
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VPC-CW13FX-14-Inch-Windows-Premium
ReviewerID: A37H71F56C91YJ
ReviewerName: Drizzle 70
Date: January 17, 2010
Helpful: 10 of 12
Rating: 1.0
Title: Only Lasted One Week
Content:
I purchased this Sony VAIO VPC-CW13FX laptop for my daughter for Christmas. I unboxed the laptop, charged the battery and did a complete setup of her software one week before Christmas, so that on Christmas everything would be good to go. Re-boxed the laptop, wrapped it up and placed it under the tree. Christmas Day oh what excitement to open a shiny new Sony VAIO laptop with Windows 7! She loved it!! I had bought her as another gift--a Microsoft Bluetooth Notebook 5000 mouse--after I had reboxed her laptop. After playing with everything for half and hour or so she opened the new Microsoft Bluetooth mouse and turned it on to pair it with her new Sony VAIO--a bluescreen of death met her eyes. Not to worry, she handed it over to me to fix. Now I've worked on computers as a tech for 30 years and it didn't take me long to figure out that the Microsoft driver that came with Windows 7 conflicted with her Sony VAIO, no problems I thought, just go to Sony's website and download the current Broadcom Bluetooth driver for this laptop. How wrong I was, the Windows 7 driver on Sony's site when I tried to install it said it was incompatible with Windows 7. Strange how Sony listed it as compatible with Win 7. I found a Win 7 Broadcom driver on another site and eventually got the mouse to work.
Fast forward one week later and my daughter took her computer to school with her. While working on the laptop on the schools wireless network for an hour she suddenly lost her internet connection and couldn't reconnect. No problems just give the notebook to Dad again to solve the connection issues. I spent an hour working methodically through every conceivable WiFi issue and came to the conclusion her notebook's Wireless card had died. The next day I called Sony tech support and had to deal with a nice but rather clueless scripted tech support person who was not much better than diagnosing a gnat. Suffice to say after 4 hours on the line with Sony and only after a complete OS recovery was performed to the C drive--they forced me to do--the tech concluded that I was right with my original diagnosis and the wireless card indeed was dead.
Now guess what, I had to send the laptop back to Sony even though I paid for 3 year extended warranty and to add insult to injury I was told it would be about a month before I'D SEE MY LAPTOP AGAIN SINCE IT WAS THE POST CHRISTMAS RUSH!! What a joke, I've owned Dells for 8 years and get next business day replacement service regardless of my problem. Sony service is useless, if this is the best they can offer. The tech's didn't know much past what they could read, they were slow, had to look everything up and didn't want to listen to what I knew or had already tested. I don't want to call them ignorant, but close. 
By the way the tech said their Win 7 Bluetooth driver was a known problem and the engineers were working on a solution. What! Windows 7 has been out in beta for over 12 months and in commercial release since late October 09 and in January 10, you still do not have not a working Win 7 Bluetooth driver outside of Sony's own Bluetooth products. Give me a break.
I bought a Sony because of their stellar perceived reputation. My advice is after my experience is DON'T BUY A SONY VAIO. If something goes wrong be ready to be minus your computer for up to a month, even if it is only 2 weeks old. Sony fix your service and support please, it stinks!