ID: B002PHM0HW-R2AOEUE40QK46M-A1FMU4CJLIDHR9
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VGN-FW550F-16-4-Inch-Windows-Premium
ReviewerID: A1FMU4CJLIDHR9
ReviewerName: Jaffrey W. Ali "Relentless Pursuit of Technology"
Date: October 27, 2009
Helpful: 14 of 16
Rating: 5.0
Title: Vaio FW + windows 7 = winner
Content:
personally I prefer windows to mac primarily because windows is better with home video and other networked applications based on my experience. However, one problem with windows based pcs from dell amd hp is their really poor design amd general ergonomics. I still believe when it comes to design and build nothimg touches an apple mac book pro.
However, after coming very close to getting a 17 inch mac book I decided to go with a windows 7 based vaio Fw. the one I got has slightly better specs than the one here. I have the full HD screen and a blu ray writer. Here is why i believe this is an exellent notebook;
1. simply the best looking large screen windows based notebook. Kudos to Sony for excellent styling. (Aesthetics is a toss up between Mac Pro and Vaio FW for me)
2. excellent build quality. way better than my dell latitude from work or my wife's hp from work. The construction is solid. Kudos to Sony engineering for excellent construction (Apple Mac Pro is #1, Vaio is #2 in my books for this criteria)
3. screen size is a perfect 16:9 aspect ratio. Perfect for movies. (The Vaio FW is #1 in my opinion, this screen was designed for multi-media use)
4. blu ray looks fantastic and it is a breeze to connect it to my tv using the hdmi cable. One cable for audio and video. (Vaio FW is #1 for multi-media, hands down!)
5. It comes with 64 bit windows 7 and I upgraded the hardware to 8 GB Ram for blazing performance when combined with the 1 gb grapics card. (Windows 7 64 bit is the best OS in my books, All said and done)
6. came clean with no crapware! 
7. sony laptops in my opinion have the best key boards. (Again, Sony created the chicklet style keyboard (not Apple) and if you like it, this is the best)
8. battery is OK. 3.5 hours on such a powerful machine is not bad.
all in all this a superb combination of performance, styling, features and software. do compare this with HP and Dell and decide which you prefer. I bet most will pick the Vaio because of the better build quality, better screen (1080p and true 16:9 size) and aesthetics. Also, compared to a Dell Lattitude that I had from work the Vaio runs much quieter and faster although both have similar hardware specs. The DVD drive on the Dell was atrocious (Dell also did not have a Blu Ray drive).
Given that Sony was one of the prime drivers and developers of the Blu Ray format, one would expect their Notebooks to have the best Blu Ray performance, or at least as good any anyone else out there.