ID: B002LEXA64-R39GHMOQ8JIA7Z-A2CIQEY05SPHTZ
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Aspire-AS1410-8414-11-6-Inch-Sapphire
ReviewerID: A2CIQEY05SPHTZ
ReviewerName: Michael Countryman "mike the camera man"
Date: September 4, 2009
Helpful: 11 of 12
Rating: 5.0
Title: This one is a no brainer!! Acer did it right this time!!
Content:
To start with I have owned many Netbooks. Acer aspire 8.9 screen and touch pad too small. Acer aspire 10.1 touch pad buttons recessed and hard to use plus no hd display so it seems small. Acer aspire 11.6 gets very hot and once again touch pad buttons recessed and hard to find. MSI wind U100 battery life short, keyboard weird, touch pad and buttons too small. Asus 1000he very thick compared to others and screen size with no hd so makes scrolling a constant.
 Now don't get me wrong all these other netbooks did have there good points but none I mean none can even get into this league. The new ASUS 1105ha is not even close on this one.
 When I checked all the specs online I thought wow is this possible! It has everything that all the other netbooks had been missing and Acer put this one together with it all plus HDMI out!
 Whne I saw the color of this one Ruby Red I thought that sounds cool but looked at  the pics on Amazon and they look purple ish. Not to worry though it is a very nice redish burgandy rust combination for lack of better words. Oh and the palm rest has a brushed look and guess what? No more finger prints all over the palm rest! Still will get on the lid though.
 The battery life so far has been great at least the 6hrs plus, but not as good as my Asus 1000he at almost 9hrs but still very good.
 The performance on this one is fantastic thanks to the new CPU and 2gig ram. Vista is on it and runs very well. Are you a Vista hatter? Not to worry since you will be able to upgrade to Windows 7 for free when it comes out in October. I have already signed up for it with Acer. 
 I have been using an evaluation copy of windows 7 on my Asus 1000he for some time with the 1.66 cpu and 1gig ram and it runs so much better than Vista could ever think about so this will be a good move.
 In short check all of what it has to offer and expect alot when you receive it because you will not be disapointed in this new model.
 Acer thank you for finally putting out a great product. Great research went into this one unlike some othet netbooks out there.