ID: B002P3KSKW-R3NJCU33894RQB-A2JKGJZHOXX74X
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Timeline-AS4810TZ-4508-14-Inch-Aluminum
ReviewerID: A2JKGJZHOXX74X
ReviewerName: T. Aitken "TDA"
Date: November 26, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Buy!
Content:
I love the computer!  I don't play computer games on it or anything, but it has all the power for what I use it for.  The size and weight are perfect.  The battery life is great; of course it drops if you play video or music on it all the time but it's still better than any other laptop I've seen.  I generally get about 6+ hours out of it and I don't run it on super power-save mode.  Windows 7 is excellent.  Card reader and DVD optical drive is nice.  I also really like the touchpad controls.  They're super easy.
UPDATE 1/7/2010:
I've now owned this computer for about 3 months and I still think it's the best laptop I've seen for the price...period!  I've even had Mac users at school ask me about the computer's specs while I've been in class and they've been impressed with everything it comes with; especially the price.  The Mac user I spoke with paid double what I did for a similar Mac with only 2 Gb RAM.  
The computer still performs wonderfully.  I was having a battery life issue for a bit but figured out that the problem was due to my anti-virus software running scans every time I turned the computer on, not due to a faulty battery.  Now that I've fixed that the battery life is still 6+ hours; not the 8 advertised but still much better that other laptops on the market.  
The one improvement I would make is in the speakers.  They are weak so the volume won't increase past a certain volume, making them hard to hear if there's any background noise at all.  Having two headphone jacks would have been nice to get around this problem also.  My wife and I sometimes watch movies or Hulu before going to bed and sharing a pair of headphones is kind of a pain.  This isn't a deal breaker for me by any means though.
I love the touchpad!  Right after we bought the laptop we bought a nice wireless laptop mouse to go with it; however, the touchpad is so perfect I hardly ever use the mouse!  I also really like that the computer never gets hot (as long as you don't block the vent).  I've used other laptops that felt like I was holding a stove after a short while because they were so hot.  
Over all we are EXTREMELY happy with this computer and feel it's been one of the best purchases we've made.  We now own an Acer desktop and laptop and are really happy with both of them.  I had never heard of the Acer brand before purchasing our desktop over a year ago but it would be really hard to convince me of another brand that offers the same features for the money.  
If your on the fence about this computer, BUY IT!  You won't be disappointed.