ID: B0027P9BZG-R1FRNMPHVKUZFL-A2GQ8BA49T5X59
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VAIO-VGN-FW465J-16-4-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2GQ8BA49T5X59
ReviewerName: Charles "CM"
Date: September 18, 2009
Helpful: 18 of 21
Rating: 1.0
Title: I will NEVER BUY ANOTHER SONY...EVER!!!
Content:
I have owned several Sonys before and they have always been good computers. I don't think this one is any different. Problem is computers have operating systems and tons of other programs that the computer manufacturer doesn't make. Well whether you pay $500 or $1500 for your computer you can still get OS and software issues.  This computer came with a CORRUPTED OS FROM THE FACTORY. Normally you would think customer service would help you figure it out and fix it no problem. Well that's where Sony has proven to be light years behind everyone else. I have never had a worse experience with a customer service department EVER, computers or other products. I have already talked to 4 people who all keep handing me off to the next person who then claims to read the transcript yet then asks me the exact same questions and attempts the same repair procedures as the previous agent. Personally I hate the way the computer manufactures don't send out physical OS/Driver back up discs. Sony installs a "secret" backup partition on your hard drive instead that eats up 10gb of precious space. In my case we tried to create the discs but just like the OS that feature was also corrupt and could not be performed. You would think they would immediately say okay lets just send you some discs. No, after it failed the tech said he was sending me to a tier 2 support. The "tier 2" agent claimed to read the transcript but then asked all the same questions and same recovery procedures. I was literally pleading with him "wait stop we already did this I need discs" and yet they completely ignored me and kept reading their scripted responses as if I didn't exist. Finally the 4TH AGENT, after of course asking all the same questions, told me that tech support cannot order recovery discs and that I needed to contact a department called "Customer's Information Service Center" whom I will need to BUY a recovery disc from, not to mention that number isn't even a 1-800 number. So basically I have to pay to call a department to pay to get a disc to a computer I just bought that came messed up out of the box? Well needless to say I seriously hope you never have a problem with you Sony because if you do you're basically screwed. I would recommend saving the extra money you would pay for a Sony and buy a Dell. I have one at work and they have great customer service, not to mention they give you with your computer actual backup discs. Maybe this is a good computer, I wouldn't know, but based on their customer service, which is supposed to be the justification for Sony's premium price, I would STAY FAR AWAY FROM VAIOS and probably any Sony products since they probably all use the same support system. I hope this helps save some of you a lot of time and hassle. Good luck.