ID: B002C745OQ-R2AST4B57Z6GEJ-A3JE2C6P6GGNYL
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB986LL-15-4-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A3JE2C6P6GGNYL
ReviewerName: Michael
Date: October 21, 2009
Helpful: 23 of 25
Rating: 4.0
Title: Best laptop ever
Content:
First, let me say I'm an IT consultant and as such a bit of a computer snob. I build my own workstations and servers and know what's what and where things count. My previous laptop was a IBM Thinkpad T23 that was the most bulletproof computer I've ever owned. I dragged that thing around with me for 8+ years and it never gave me a single problem. However, it was just too slow to keep up with me and my need to run Adobe's creative suite and MS Office 2007. My expectations for a replacement were quite high and I set my sites on the MBP about a year ago and watched the specs slowly creep up to where I wanted them and of course waited for Snow Leopard to arrive. What finally sold me was VMWare Fusion, which allows you to run Windows as a virtual machine from within OS X. I know Bootcamp can boot Windows, but I wanted to work entirely within OS X as I don't have time to be rebooting and reopening things. This was a must-have both for the ability to run my huge investment in Windows software as well as run the various flavors of Windows needed to support my clients. The folks at the local Apple store showed me VMWare running and I placed my order the same day. I went for the matte screen and 500gb drive, both of which I am very glad I did. The glossy screen is gorgeous, but I was going to use this as a laptop not as a desktop replacement, meaning it would be going with me in all sorts of environments where I couldn't control the ambient lighting so glare was a huge concern. The matte screen isn't quite as sexy, but it is still the brightest LCD screen I have ever used. I turn the brightness down a couple clicks even when on AC power, just because it's so dang bright. 
The performance of this laptop is amazing. I went with the 2.8 GHz CPU and as such got the dual video cards with maximum video RAM. I run at least a half dozen different programs at once, sometimes more, including Firefox with 20+ tabs and VMWare running a virtual machine of Windows 7 and this thing doesn't not even hiccup. Blazing, screaming, insanely fast. My MBP arrived 9 days ago and I have yet to reboot it once. The trackpad is sweet and the finger gestures are a great innovation. The battery is also amazing. I've given up on the dedicated video (see below) and am getting 6+ hours out of a charge, without any extreme power saving efforts. I'm carefully counting each cycle, as I'm sure a lot of other users are, and will happily scream and yell at Apple if this thing doesn't last 1000 cycles as promised.
Now for the Con's, although they are minor.
1. The dual video cards seem a bit gimmicky. Okay, I'm glad for the dedicated card when running Adobe CS4 apps, but really, I could live with the performance of the onboard card. The dedicated video card also sucks battery and heats the laptop up considerably, almost alarmingly hot. Running the onboard video there is almost no discernible heat. The biggest annoyance is that you have to close everything and log out every time you want to switch cards. Because of the heat and battery issue, I've found myself just living with the onboard video. It's not worth the hassle to log out and change it.
2. It's a BIG HONKING laptop, almost as big as the 17". If it was an inch narrower it would be the very definition of perfection. It barely fits in the laptop sleeve of my gigantic Patagonia Half Mass bag and it's girth makes it a little cumbersome and unwieldy to pick up and move around or use on one's lap. I would have happily gone for the 13" model if I could have gotten the same performance specs.
I sell and repair computers for a living and this is hands-down the best laptop on the market for my specific needs. While I paid a premium I feel it was a good value. Average users would do well with the MacBook or 13" MBP. Nothing in the PC laptop world even comes close. That being said, this review is specific to my needs for a laptop. A desktop is a completely different beast and my desktop workstation still runs Windows XP Pro.