ID: B002ONCDRO-R1MKKYCQOPDITG-A2DOM9GAG4A1CP
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV7-3060US-17-3-Inch-Espresso-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2DOM9GAG4A1CP
ReviewerName: JD Adams
Date: November 29, 2009
Helpful: 65 of 67
Rating: 4.0
Title: Okay, here's what you really want to know.
Content:
This is an honest review from the perspective of a 50+ year-old guy who is very picky and cheap, overeducated and damn proud of his underachievments.  Let's face it: most of what old folks do is CEREBRAL; I'm not a marathon runner or a dumbass nosepicking kid on a skateboard.  I think for a living, and for those who can appreciate the difference, I offer the following nuggets of wisdom.
This new HP Pavilion DV7-3063CL replaced my 20-year old IBM Aptiva desktop that ran my own custom version of Win98SE.  (I re-wrote and compiled parts of the OS to suit my needs, as well as used code from Windows ME to properly support large DASD's.  Reverse engineering ROCKS.)  I have used 56K dialup and a nice old NEC 15" flatscreen that worked great for almost 20 years.  I bought this thing on a whim for Christmas, now that I'm divorced and finally have some extra money.  I've always wanted a decent laptop and now I have it!  Here are my honest impressions of this thing.
I'm cheap, so I bought discounted at Costco.  What caught my eye immediately was the stainless steel around the edge, the HDMI port, the touchpad and the brick-sturdy feel.  It's not ultra-light, nor does the screen flip open easily.  The screen hinge is tight and has remained that way since I bought it.  This is good: I don't want the damned thing flopping around while I type.  The artsy-fartsy design on the front sucks but it's not obnoxious either.  It's HUGE, heavy and it takes up a lot of real estate.  This isn't a laptop: it's a portable desktop computer, which suits me just fine.
Windows 7 isn't as much of a PIA as I thought it might be.  The function keys really save time.  The DVD player controls up next to the screen are outstanding and very useful.  The keyboard is quiet and mushy which bothers me, as I prefer my old classic IBM 5150 board that makes lots of soothing clickety-clackety noise.  Getting used to a laptop keyboard takes lots of PATIENCE.  Separate numberpad is nice.  Ability to turn off touchpad is great because my big paws often get in the way.  GOBS of ports on this thing, more than you'll ever need.  It feels SOLID and well made.  The HD is lightning fast and quiet.  The screen is a stunner and easy to read --great for us old guys who can't see their feet anymore.
This machine is often reviewed as mediocre in performance testing.  Bullcookies.  It's unbelievably fast by anyone's standards, and I've run Windows 7 performance index testing that proves it.  The AMD dual-core processer, 4-gig DDR2 memory and 500GB 7200-SATA drive work well together; I shut the swapfile nonsense off completely, de-crapified the HD and made numerous tweaks including the deletion of dozens of scheduled tasks, and this machine now flat-out HAULS ASS.  
Watching instant-play movies from Netflix on an HDTV is a breeze using a $.50 cent HDMI cable.  I discovered the DVD drive supports DVD-RAM disks, although writing is extremely slow.  Win7 also can use DVD -/+RW disks like a floppy for reading/writing.  Great for backing up data, but again, SLOW.  There is also a 2nd drive bay to install another hard drive for full-system (cloned) backups.  You can turn off the foofy screen effects through Control Panel so that it looks like older versions of Windows and speed things up, but I find that computer speed is greasy-fast no matter if the silly effects are on or off, thanks to the fast dedicated video card.  The SDHC card slot works great and is fast; I use Class 6 cards to back data up, and it's much easier than using DVD's by a longshot.
The bad news: tons of bloatware and crap slow boot times and suck up RAM.  The good news: it can be blown away easily using "PC Decrapifier" (Love the name! Freeware and it WORKS,) trimming back scheduled tasks and disabling prefetching/paging.  All I left in was MS Works.  All that "Windows Live" crapola, Photoshop X2 nonsense and the rest got blown away immediately.  Same goes for the demoware, beggerware and especially the upgradeware games --GONE, and whatever you do --be SURE to blow the Norton Antivirus demoware away ASAP; it causes nothing but problems.  Nuke anything that loads up at boot time, esp. those damned "updaters" that sit in memory and market useless products.  I shed 20GB by just dumping bloatware, installers and tweaking a few other things.  This machine now cold-boots from power button to password prompt in 15-seconds flat.  Yes, **15 SECONDS!**  This is excellent performance for a machine like this, and it easily blows away $3000 "power user" machines that a few co-workers own.  Most can't believe how fast this thing is.
Bottom line: lightning-fast with just a few tweaks, beautiful huge screen, Win7, oodles of storage and RAM and very sexy lines at a great price.  Battery life is not overstated; I easily get 4+ hours on a charge with the screen brightness turned down.  This is a great replacement for a desktop system, and I can recommend it to the over-50 crowd that just wants something fast, durable and cheap.