ID: B002PJ40Q4-R3PNK9PS0FT7DU-A3R8PL2SX0PUHF
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-K-x-Digital-18-55mm-Red
ReviewerID: A3R8PL2SX0PUHF
ReviewerName: Penny P. "Penny P."
Date: December 24, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: such a great ( and unique) DSLR
Content:
While attempting to find a good ,mid range ,entry level DSLR, I stumbled across the pentax K-x. I mean, how could I miss that flashy red color. And after extensive research it wasnt just the red color that attracted me to this camera.
First off ,after testing many of the canons and nikons around the k-x's class. ( i.e. canon xsi, t1i, nikon D3000, D5000) I found the pentax much eaiser to pick up and get started. Being a previous canon user myself, the T1i seemed far to intimidating. Right out of the box with the K-x I was able to figure out how to adjust settings and within 15 minutes had some half decent shots. 
However the only thing that did not seem to make sense to me was the placement of the delete button ( all the way over in left field). My hand has to shift to hit it. Which i suppose is not a bad thing, considering there is something heartless about a delete button on a camera. ( I love film and am stuck in my ways) 
The feel of this in my hands is almost as good as my 35mm metal body film camera (gasp!)it doesnt feel like a cheap toy. Its solid, as one reviewer had also pointed out. 
The cross processing feature sold me. I do a lot of cross processing with film , which quickly gets pricey. Although its not film , it pleases me ( and my wallet) that I can now get close results digitally. the digital filters are fun to play around with as well, most notablly: Toy camera , which imatates the 'old school' holgas/diana's that hipsters die for now a days. 
live view seems a bit noisy to me. I can hear the camera 'think' ( click )when I change settings such as the iso. But , then again , this is the first DSLR that I have owned ...so it could be minor issue. 
Video quality is superb.
and above all the price is right. ( much cheaper than the nikon's and canon's you'll come across in its range)
I urge those looking at buying a new dslr to look into the pentax K-X . you wont be dissapointed. PLUS who else has got a RED! camera. 
win win.