ID: B002HO7FBO-R3O55QTPYTPEF5-A190ISHISXAR2M
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Single-Serving-Bundle-B77
ReviewerID: A190ISHISXAR2M
ReviewerName: Botpol
Date: December 1, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great coffee, great hot chocolate, great coffee maker
Content:
I'd been searching for a coffee maker for some time. So many look good and the price range is ridiculous, what does a girl buy? I knew I didn't want a coffee maker with a large pot, my husband doesn't drink coffee and I typically drink one or two cups. I owned a Senseo at one time but primarily used it for tea, the coffee always had a funky cardboard taste to me. To get a decent selection of coffees or teas I had to go online, it just wasn't convenient to have to order my pods and wait for them. 
The Keurig is a whole different story. I was at at store and saw this, I was still on the fence until I saw this new model could make a glass of iced tea as well. Needless to say I was sold, yay for impulse buying!! I love how quick this makes coffe, tea and hot chocolate. The manual says it could take over a minute for a cup but I've found it's always less than a minute. I also love the fact I can locally buy the K-cups if I run out or I can use the mycup if I want to use my own coffee or tea. 
My in-laws came out for a couple of weeks and they fell in love with this too. They are the typical older parents, they know what they like and don't want to change. They like their Folgers Classic and that's what they wanted to drink. I knew they could use the Mycup but I had no idea on the amount or if the taste would be different. I had only used Mycup for tea, which it worked fine for. They came out, I should them how to use it and I think they liked this machine a little more everyday. About a week into their visit they said they wanted one for home and the Keurig actually made the coffee taste better. 
Oh, and I like the light for the water reservoir. It's bright enough to act as a night light in the kitchen but not so bright it's annoying. The light also blinks when the water gets low, again a nice, non-annoying way to let me know to fill it. 
Pros: 
Easy to use 
Easier to clean than a coffee maker 
Saves money, no wasted coffee 
Brews a better cup of coffee 
Brew good hot chocolate, we use the Cafe Escapes K-cups 
Easy to find K-cups locally and are cheaper than online 
Everyone can get the coffee, tea, hot chocolate they want 
Brews quickly 
Cons: 
Now we have to buy one for the in-laws 
Reservoir could be bigger but then I suppose it would make the foot print bigger, which I wouldn't want.