ID: B0027VTLDM-RD6KAP9L5UUL6-A2BZ9N999ZGOQU
Category: SpaceHeaters
Product: Lasko-5568-34-Inch-Oscillating-Ceramic
ReviewerID: A2BZ9N999ZGOQU
ReviewerName: Patricia L. Rhodes
Date: March 11, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Awesome Product!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Content:
I love Lasko heaters, my hubby had a 29" pedestal heater that lasted roughly 5 years before acting up, so once it decided to die on us I searched and found this one on Amazon.
We had looked in the store and actually bought a Delonghi because he didn't want to have to wait until we could get this one in the mail, but it sucked!  It didn't show the current room temperature like the Lasko, only the set temperature so you couldn't tell what the actual room temperature was.  It kept turning on and off as if it was trying to maintain that exact temperature instead of turning on 1 degree below the set temperature, then back off at 2 degrees above like this Lasko.  And the plastic at the base was grinding and popping when I tried to use it in oscillation mode, which was really annoying. 
So it went back and I ordered this one, and am I ever glad we did, I love it!  It arrived slightly damaged, but that could have been a manufacturing error as the box was in perfect condition, one of the side panels was pushed in making it look funny, but I carefully fixed that problem even though it didn't affect it's operation any, just couldn't stand looking at it the way it looked.  Now it looks and works perfect, we couldn't be happier!  And I love the added feature they've started using, it turns on low every 10 minutes for about 10 seconds to circulate the air and recheck the air temperature, instead of relying on the stagnant air temperature which can give a false reading like the old Lasko pedestal heater we had.  Don't get me wrong, I loved that one too, but this one is even better! I highly recommend this heater to anyone who's looking for a way to help save on electricity and just warm the room you're in.