ID: B002JCSV5I-R1D66ZWHM51HN8-A310H0PAIE0HTE
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D3000-Digital-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G
ReviewerID: A310H0PAIE0HTE
ReviewerName: Konstantinos Kontogiannis "nocturne"
Date: October 11, 2009
Helpful: 20 of 23
Rating: 4.0
Title: Nikon D3000 getting started with DSLRs
Content:
I had the Camera for a month or so now and i must say that i was used to Point and shoot cameras with above average performance when it comes to specific areas (point and shoot are fine in their own right)... So i wanted to "migrate" into the next level and really focus on my plating photography...I Blog regularly at [...] and i soon realized that despite my old Sony zoom and daylight pics were good there were lacking that essence ....And then when shooting plated food there is all kind of things to have in mind , specifically lighting conditions.... So i browsed and compared and decided that i like both canon and Nikon Platforms ,only to make a final decision to go with Nikon D3000...And why D3000? 
well the features on this camera are more than enough for someone to handle  especially someone coming into more serious attempts of photography ... At the price range right now there is little competition or none...And the picture quallity is great and you will start shooting as soon a you get it... I got a crash course into using it on a trip to NYC where i had the opportunity to take a lot of indoor shots and some outdoor shots with great results (and then some with not so great) but bare in mind that i am as picky as i can be..I will take several pictures , as many as possible and then choose the best angles and results to go on and use or print... 
Overall i am really happy...This camera has enough features for the serious amateur that wants to learn how to use DSLRs and the basics of good photography.... Of course if you are looking into more serious cameras i am sure there are plenty of Nikon and CANON cameras to fit anybody's needs , but for the little guy that is just starting on DSLRs the d3000 is perfect... And its pretty light too...I was carrying around without much trouble all day....