ID: B002BH4Q82-R3IZD84W11X2QH-AEIF026EFSEHQ
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV7-2180US-17-3-Inch-Entertainment-Laptop
ReviewerID: AEIF026EFSEHQ
ReviewerName: Damien Alvarado "Damien Alvarado"
Date: August 31, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: One laptop to rule them all
Content:
I am an IT consultant and I get machines assigned to me when I begin work with a new client.  I don't always have the right tools installed and having multiple laptops to manage means I typically carry two machines.  I wanted a single laptop that I could configure to my desire and then turn any machine assigned to me by a client into a virtual image and run from my one laptop.  I selected this HP because it has a quad core processor with virtualization enabled, 6Gb of RAM, and a 500Gb hard drive.  Not all processors used in laptops have the virtualization instructions enabled.  If you plan on running virtualization you should check the Intel or AMD homepage and make sure the processors installed can handle it.
Some users are worried about Nvidia vs ATI for graphics but I primarily use development tools like Visual Studio, SQL Server Mangement Studio and SQL Developer most of the time and the games I like to play are about 10 years old (Starcraft, Quake).  If high end gaming is on your to do list I don't know how well this machine would do since the cores only run at 2Ghz.
I installed Windows 7 on this laptop as soon as I got it and that was a very smooth process.  These machines are eligible for the Windows 7 upgrade from HP/Microsoft but I'm and MSDN subscriber so I have access to the bits now.  I then reinstalled only the select drivers I needed to enable the touch controls on the top, the scroll ability of the track pad and the video card drivers.  Guess what, no more bloatware!  Gone is all the trial software that ships with so many PCs now.  Everything is running very well now and Windows 7 has been a pleasure to use.  I disabled the constant security reminders, so it looks slick but with none of the annoyance of Vista asking me if I'm sure I want to do X, Y, Z.  Adding a networked printer to this laptop was a dream but I think that is more a matter of Windows 7 plus the printer in question (HP OfficeJet Pro 8500) than this particular laptop.
I have converted two physical machines into VMs and run them from a USB 2.0 drive.  I would like to get the second hard drive installed because I don't want my host OS competing with the guest OS for disk I/O.  The 6Gb of RAM and quad cores means I can run the VMs at full strength and flip back effortlessly to my host OS.  when I say "full strength" that means I run them configured with dual cores and 2Gb of RAM just like they have in the "real world".  When I was testing the VM software on the two laptops in question I had to dial down the RAM used by the guest because it caused my host OS to run out of RAM and thrash on the disk.  I only run one VM at a time and have not yet used up all the RAM.  This is great considering I use memory intensive programs like SQL Server, Reporting Services, Integration Services, Visual Studio, Firefox, IIS, and VMWare of course.  Running server apps on my laptop while navigating between the guest and host OS all while listening to my music without skips or pause brings a smile to my face.
The battery has decent life and there are lots of power options to toggle to extend the battery or crank up the performance.  I've seen some complaints about the screen resolution but I appreciate it because I look at text most of the day and having a higher resolution would add more strain to my eyes.  One of my laptops is a Lenovo with a 15 inch sreen and a very high resolution and at its native setting it is very tough to read.  If you decrease the resolution on the Lenovo everything looks stretched and distorted even though it is bigger and easier to read.
For the type of work I do and the price of this laptop I'm very pleased and would recommend it to other IT professionals that would like "one laptop to rule them all".