ID: B002ONCBX0-R3MPKBI8W047UK-A13BOWET73AJQ1
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV6-1360US-15-6-Inch-Espresso-Laptop
ReviewerID: A13BOWET73AJQ1
ReviewerName: drgteeth611
Date: November 12, 2009
Helpful: 25 of 25
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great budget gaming laptop
Content:
For the dv6-1360us
Pros:
Price - For less than 900, I got a laptop that can play the games I want at high settings and is fairly light for portability's sake.
Keyboard - This laptop has a pretty comfortable keyboard to type on.  I'm not a huge fan of the touch controls for volume and wireless adapter, but you get used to it quickly.  The inclusion of a numpad is great and it doesn't make the keyboard feel squashed.
DDR3 RAM - This computer can handle a lot of various tasks together and the bumped up performance from the DDR3 RAM is pretty noticeable.
Movies - Good resolution on the screen.  Not 1080p, but still great to watch movies on.  HDMI output is awesome
Speakers - MUCH louder and clearer than any other laptop I've ever owned.  No Bass, but I didn't expect any.
Great Graphics Card -  I have tried playing various different games, including WoW, Crysis, CoD4, Resident Evil 5, and Prototype.  I have had very nice framerates for all of the games at high settings without overclocking
The little remote control that they include with the laptop clicks nicely into the expresscard slot and is great for when you connect the computer to a screen and want to watch a movie.
Cons:
This thing is a fingerprint and dust magnet.  Be ready to wipe it clean several times a week with the included microfiber cloth.
The 6 cell battery that is included is pretty mediocre.  At all settings on optimal, I squeezed out about an hour and a half on it.  At optimal battery life, it was about 2 hours and 15 minutes.  I will probably invest in a 12 cell battery.
No BluRay - I didn't actually expect bluray on a laptop this cheap, but it'd be nice
ATI's video card drivers are still in Beta.  I haven't had any troubles so far, but until a stable release, I'm still a little worried and crossing my fingers.
The HP LED light on the case is kind of annoying since you can't turn it off at all.  and it is BRIGHT