ID: B002OEBTD2-RUWKAHZ5BTIZZ-A3IPGGS7KLAJ13
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-K-x-2-7-inch-18-55mm-White
ReviewerID: A3IPGGS7KLAJ13
ReviewerName: Rocket scientist
Date: January 18, 2010
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: A DSLR with excellent value
Content:
I replaced my Minolta digital P&S (given as a gift nearly 10 yrs ago) with a Pentax K-x white just before the holidays. I went with Pentax because I was very happy with my past Pentax cameras (all manual K1000 ages ago and more recently a PZ-1) and I wanted to keep using a couple of good zoom lenses I had for the PZ-1. Two additional requirements were the DSLR be capable of movie recording and be no more than $750, preferably around $500. The K-x met all the requirements and I couldn't pass it up when Amazon offered it for $520!!! I think Pentax offers the best value - good quality, superb features at a reasonable price - compared to Canon or Nikon.
Upon arrival, the first think I did was put in the batteries that came with it and upgraded the firmware with an old 1 GB SD card (from the minolta). That went without a glitch. I took a hanfdul of shots around the home to test it. The picture quality was great. The camera was easy to use, i.e. navigating the menus was intuitive. It was compatible with my two old lenses. It worked fine with my Sanyo eneloop rechargeables, though I had to recharge them every other day after heavy use (the manual does hint at this). I got a 8GB SanDisk Class 4 SD card, and that too worked fine. Connecting to the PC and transferring the images using Picasa was straightforward and there really was no need to install the SW that came with the camera. After couple of weeks of heavy use on my vacation, I amy very satisfied with my purchase.
Though the camera has liveview mode and movie capability, I found these features to be rather "clumsy" - sort of expected that based on other reviews. The features worked well in limted cases. In some cases, the focus search algorithm was horribly slow. I think this applies to other DSLRs too. If these features are important in a DSLR, I recommend you wait a couple of iterations.