ID: B002OEBTD2-R23SZRKUWAPS5Y-A23VTC6VKNFZVE
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-K-x-2-7-inch-18-55mm-White
ReviewerID: A23VTC6VKNFZVE
ReviewerName: Robert D. Williams "music  worm"
Date: April 13, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: BEST OF THE BUNCH
Content:
Received my Pentax K-x camera today at suprisingly the same time as my May issue of Popular Photography.  This issue has the full test report of the K-x and I just couldn't wait to read it.  The little Pentax compares favorably with the Nikon D3000 and the Canon Rebel XS.  After using it today, I think the Pentax is much better.  Every photo I took was perfectly exposed and the auto focus even nailed a hawk 500 feet away.  While small, it's not tiny and and weighs 20.5 ozs. It feels comfortable in my medium sized hands.  I've had the Pentax K-7 since it came out last year and the K-x compares nicely with it.  You have the same digital filters, in-camera croping and custom functions.  It's not weatherproof so you can't take it out in the rain.  I got the white model.  It's a standout, especially with a telephoto zoom on it.  I haven't tried the video.  P.P. says it's on par with what you can expect with most DSLRs.  I tried some interior shots at high ISO (6400 and 12800).  They seemed OK in the LCD and not much noise.  P.P. says at 6400 the Pentax performed better than the Nikon did at 3200.  The cameras menu is the best i've seen on ANY camera.  It's easy to navigate and not complicated.  Batteries seem to be an issue with this camera.  I installed the ones that came with the kit and they work fine.  I've made up my mind that because the camera cost so little, I can aford to keep a spare pack or two of lithiums on hand all the time.  The shelf life is awesome.  The kit lens is great. It handles better and the zoom is better damped than either the Nikon or Canon kit lenses (I have both ).  The close focus is better too.  The digital filters are what I really like about this camera.  Neither Nikon nor Canon have them on any models that I know of.  You can take an ordinary photo and change it into something interesting and beautiful.  Most of the photos on my wall were made using the filters.  You don't need a computer or photoshop to make them and you still keep your original files.  Another neat thing this camera has that no one seems to mention is a little electric blue "on" lamp that's on top right next to the power switch.  It's really bright and you'll know if your camera is still turned on.  All in all, of all the cameras I have owned, this little Pentax is my favorite and I can't believe I almost missed it in the shadow of its big brother the K-7.