ID: B002M3SONI-R3M9WN6OVNS7C2-AFA0D4A5IKIMP
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-shuffle-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: AFA0D4A5IKIMP
ReviewerName: Teri Franzen "Book Lover"
Date: April 7, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 3.0
Title: Would Prefer Controls On the IPod Itself
Content:
I had the 2nd generation IPod shuffle for years until the battery finally died completely.  It was the absolute best player I've ever owned.  As a runner I need something small and light weight and that fit the bill beautifully.  I don't care much about controls except I need to be able to adjust volume and move between songs.  And I need the flexibility of using a different headset for running that fits over my ears.
The 4th generation IPod shuffle is just not as good as the 2nd.  In an effort to make the player even more light weight the volume and movement controls were placed on the headset.  If you want to use a different head set you have to buy a 3rd party adapter.  And as in my case, if your cat decides the original head set is a chew toy and bites clean through the cable it is not easy to find a replacement for the original.  I have only found them on e-bay for approximately $16.  Using the head set adapter with my running head set extends the length of the head set cable and adds weight that counters the light weight of the IPod.
Also, moving forward and backwards between songs with the head set control requires pressing twice for forward and three times for backwards.  I find myself having to do this frequently and it is a pain as I can't always get the frequency and commonly end up pausing instead of moving between songs.
I really enjoy my 4th generation IPod shuffle.  It has great sound quality and is light weight for running.  But I miss the 2nd generation Shuffle.  I find myself continually frustrated in dealing with the controls issues.  Today, as I write this, I have forgotten the adapter and replacement head set both at home.  So I am degraded in that I am forced to use a head set without the controls.  This leaves me with no volume control and no way to move around other than the "random play" mode.