ID: B002PAQXCW-R16LJX24KBML7Z-A2A0FBLKJN4ZY5
Category: Laptops
Product: ASUS-G51J-A1-15-6-Inch-Gaming-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2A0FBLKJN4ZY5
ReviewerName: W. freeman
Date: January 15, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great laptop, the larger G71 is about the same.
Content:
NOTE:This is for the Intel Core 2 Duo model. Not the I7.
I really loved this computer, i say loved because i just didnt think it was necessary for me, since i already have a PS3, 360, and a gaming Desktop, so yes it was a bit overkill. But i'm glad i tried it out just the same. I got this laptop right after the release of the windows 7 models, also i had a friend who had the old Asus G51 i believe, with the Nvidia 9800GTM, with 512mb of memory. This one comes with the Nvidia Geforce 260M, which isnt quite as powerful as the desktop models, but holds its own for a laptop. I actually have an ATI 4850 1mb that beats this card quite a bit, and can play pretty much anything at 1920 x 1080, but thats neither here nor there. Being able to play pretty much any game thats on Xbox on this laptop is a very cool way to do things, especially if you travel and want to whip out, Call of Duty MW 1 or 2, Dead Space, Devil May Cry 4, Borderlands, or even something old like Doom 3 or SIMs 2, whatever your pleasure. So bascially yes this is a portable Xbox 360, and plays much the same, resolution wise, etc. The speakers leave something to be desired, but if you go down to your icons next to the clock you'll see the real tek red speaker. Click on it, go to the menu underneath where it says sound effects, you'll get many options like Club, Rock, Classic, etc. Choose live, and the volume will shoot up drastically, the only time you should uncheck it, is when watching a movie, not sure why this is, but it works. The native resolution is low, but even the G72 is still only 1600 x 900, and not full 1080p, but most laptops aren't considering the punishment the smaller screens will take with this high resolution. You really shouldnt start getting into the 1080p area until about 24inches or so. Besides if you look on Xbox live and see the demos, it tells you exactly which games have what resolution. Well sadly, very very very few have it, and most are 720, or 1080i. The only draw back i've seen or heard are two things, what i've heard is the wireless drops quite frequently and even on all the Asus models it may do the same. Thats the biggest issue i've heard about ASUS in general. While i didnt have a problem in this area, what i did notice is when copying movies, the max speed you can get with the software your given is 4x, this i thought is totally unacceptable. Next to my girlfriends cheap Toshiba(which i gave her) it was really really slow at burning. Converting is fast and a breeze, and why the drive slows when copying or burning, i have no idea. Thats why i decided to move up to the G72 which was a beast in itself, but just to much money for me to blow. After using it for a few days i decided i didnt need it, but compared to its little brother, the burning was fine, speakers where much better, the resolution was well, about the same, but had 6 gigs of RAM to make up for the slower 5400rpm hard drive. So all in all they are about on the same level, and if you check with this model the calculations per second and the Pentium Core 2 Duo of 2.13ghz actually gets 5 stars, as compared to the G72 getting 4 on the intel sticker. Best buy now has this model(not the I7 which i imagine is sweet) for 899, i would definitely get one while they last. So if you want a great computer for all around, and its not to big, get this lil bad boy, or just up and get the big brother, they are really about the same.
Also something else to note is i really liked the rubbery texture to rest your hand on as opposed to the high glossy blue that comes on the G72. This one shows prints much less and can easily be removed. Another thing is don't always rely on the Windows Rating Index, this computer shows the same as the G72 pretty much in every area, which i don't see how its possible considering the bigger model has a 2.53ghz duo core processor. Strange. And least but not least, do not i repeat do not but your PC games anymore at Gamestop(which is stopping anyways) or Best Buy. Go and download them from either GamersGate or Direct to Drive dr2d(my personal fav) and you'll find anything you want DRM free. No kidding, the DRM is removed and there are no discs and you can re-download anytime you like. Also i've heard went Infinity Ward gets up off its rear and finally fixes all the flaws with the pc version of COD MW2 they are aiming for these sites to be the first with the fixed versions. So definitely take the warning, stay away from discs, download digital. :)