ID: B002PAQXB8-R3UOE5GVEPA9ZM-AKG1SDA3EGPD6
Category: Laptops
Product: U50Vg-AM1-15-6-Inch-Laptop-Windows-Premium
ReviewerID: AKG1SDA3EGPD6
ReviewerName: pcxtreme
Date: January 30, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: VERY NICE FOR THE PRICE
Content:
I have owned 4 laptops over the last 8 years, 1st one was an IBM, last 3 were HP. The last one was an HP dv9000, and for the most part was ok
after i rolled it back too windows xp, so i have no idea how similar win 7 is too vista, 7 seems a little cartoony but i will get used too it.
My old Hp had an amd turion 1.6 GHz dual core processor, 2 gigs of ram, 1mb cache, 120gb hd, and an nvidia geforce go 6150 video card, with no dedicated memory. I am not a hardcore gamer, but do enjoy playing WOW, sim city, madden nfl, fifa, couple 1st person shooters, and my HP was just killing me everything was choppy
and lagged. so far for the few hours that i have been using the asus i am impressed with the performance.
the keyboard is very nice, feels good, without too much noise. the touch pad works and feels great also.
The laptop boots up fast and runs real quiet even when i'm playing WOW, i don't hear it buzzing or crackling.
not sure how long the battery lasts, but for me that is not a big deal.
The color is a black metallic with blue, i thought it was going too be just a gloss black, but the metallic looks very sharp as far as i care.
wish the screen had a higher resolution but no biggie. and the finger prints, also no big deal for me.
all in all for the price i am very happy with what i got. great warranty, nice performance, looks great and feels like good quality, didn't have a ton of bloatware like my last HP, which will save you time uninstalling garbage. My desktop has an asus motherboard,(never an issue) and my son owns one of their gaming laptops, for about 8 months now (he pushes it atleast 4-7 hours gaming a day)still holding strong never a crash. customer service is excellent, and unless something major happens in the coming months, from my personal asus experiences i think i will keep buying their laptops. so far no complaints.