ID: B002XZLURC-R3FMD1B8NPQECR-A3HSM78XRTDKTK
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30Vt-X1-Light-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A3HSM78XRTDKTK
ReviewerName: Jordan
Date: December 9, 2009
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Has exceeded my expectations!
Content:
I'm very pleased with this computer thus far.  I find some reviewers are nitpicking a bit with their cons of this computer.  
For one, it's funny that someone marked down their rating of this product because amazon ran out of stock and outside sellers have booted up the price (not really the computer's fault).  I also don't have much of a problem with the touch pad, i find it useable with most of the gestures working just fine for me, it just takes a little working in and tweaking.  
Performance wise it has been very capable.  While I dont do much gaming, HD Hulu and HD youtube videos have run perfectly (in high performance mode with nvidia on of coarse) and the picture looks amazing btw. Multitasking as well has not been a problem for this computer as (for testing purposes) i have opened numerous IE windows along with a couple word documents and excel spreadsheets while I played music in itunes and all operated just fine.  
Viewing angles are pretty good, the lateral angles are better than the verticle angles, but this isnt much of an issue for me, just adjust the angle of the screen till it looks good.  Build quality is excellent, this thing feels good while holding it!  No noticable creeks for flex either.  I can attest that it picks up fingerprints but I dont mind wiping it down every once in a while, it still looks super sleek! I havent done much battery testing yet, but I'm sure it has more than enough juice for my needs.  Also, while this computer does come with a bit a bloatware, so does every other personal notebook these days and its easy to uninstall, its nothing people should be getting to worked up about.
Overall this is an awesome computer that looks and feels great, and performes really well.  A definate recommendation to anyone interested!