ID: B002L6HE78-R2VM8M8ZCA918H-A6K43G7WO5169
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Green-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A6K43G7WO5169
ReviewerName: Jeremy
Date: December 28, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Travel Companion
Content:
I received my Ipod 5th generation model as a late Christmas gift and have been playing with it for hours and hours, listening to all my favorite music and watching a couple of movie such as Gladiator extended cut and 300 as well as The Dark Knight, the picture quality is amazing, such clarity from such a small device but maybe that's because its due to the screen size and ratio, Does not really matter because it gets the job done. Size does matter when traveling and being one who takes buses, trains and planes to my destination im always on the look out for the next best thing when it comes to entertainment on the go and it just so happens I have found something incredible. Here are the top 5 reasons why you should purchase an Ipod Nano 5th generation:
1. So small, extremly portable, smaller than your phone, thin and light and discrete. 
2. You can record and capture live video of those goofy vacations and moments. 
3. You can listen to Local radio stations as long as you get a clear signal and...Pause live radio for up to 15 minutes!!
4. You can watch your videos on the go without cramping your wrists, such a portable video player now exists and it is in the form of a clever design that screams portability!
5. If you hear a song that you like from a local radio station, via Germany, France or Rome you can tag it, than sync your ipod to your pc and purchase the song! Who says you can't keep up on whats hot in the music industry, now you can!
    Well there you have it, Those are my top reasons why the 5th generation is better than the 4th, I have a 4th and now a 5th as well as a Sony psp and I mus say this Nano topples my psp by far in portability and sound quality. Its just there.. waiting to be put in your pocket to go wherever you go, anytime, any where. Another feature that is interesting is that you can sit on a train and be read to using the built in audio book feature. This device is [...] for entertainment, weather your off for a run or at work trying tog et some work done, its a nifty little toy!