ID: B002RT93PA-R4SLT7SL5Y27K-A1BFMWEWDIHU1L
Category: Laptops
Product: Lenovo-Y550P-324156U-15-6-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1BFMWEWDIHU1L
ReviewerName: Bart J. Hopkins
Date: February 4, 2010
Helpful: 5 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Opinions...Mine: Amazing Laptop
Content:
This laptop is amazing.  
PROs:  I almost NEVER hear the fan...and I never hear a high-pitched whine...and my sound output quality is easily the best I have heard on a laptop (go into control panel and turn on WavesMaxx Audio in Realtek HD Audio Manager...triples the volume and really gives it a lush sound)...maybe the other reviewer got a lemon that gave the opposite report on all those things.  Laptop runs cool.  The best "feel" for any keyboard I have EVER used.  Yes, the trackpad has a slightly textured surface, but I got used to it after about a day and now consider it the best I have used and very responsive (another reviewer said that 99% of laptops have a smooth trackpad...where was that statistic obtained, ha!).  It has 3 USB hubs...one is a combo eSata on the left-hand side, in a very convenient spot.  Not sure what these other people are doing, or how they have adjusted their settings, but I consistently get 2:45-3 hours of battery life doing internet and light office app. work (on a moderate power-saving mode).  The partitioning of the hard drives is really pretty simplistic and I am not sure why anyone would blow a gasket over that.  This machine edits HD Video like a champion and runs Adobe CS4, PowerDirector Ultra, and Video Studio Pro X3 with ease.  The photo/video editing software also initializes VERY quickly compared to other computers I have used.  The computer itself boots up in under a minute and shuts down in just a few seconds...so quickly I actually did a double-take the first few times I turned it off (My Vaio...I sometimes walked around the houes doing other things for a few mintues to give it time to boot down)!  The laptop is pretty light considering the power under the hood...it doesn't feel as durable as some others, maybe, but I still wouldn't hesitate to travel with it.  I ran the PC Pitstop scanner on the computer and it rated almost EVERY FACET of the computer in the top 1% of all computers (CPU, GPU, RAM, HD Size, 3D Graphics, etc, etc)...the only thing it marked down was the HD Speed for being 5400rpm (still top 25% though).  Windows experience index = 7.0 / 7.3 / 6.4 / 6.4 / and 5.9.  Power cord is probably a good 12-18" longer than others I have used, which I find to be a good thing.  Slidebar and Veriface are interesting, but I just uninstalled them...not really my thing.
CONs:  A little bloatware, easily removed in a couple of hours or less (and way less than my Sony Vaio had).  Stopped connecting to internet first day...Lenovo walked me through correcting a Win7 conflict error...had me up and going again in minutes. Left trackpad button sticks a little.  It took me a little time to get used to the width of the screen.
Recap: I really don't think you can go wrong with this laptop.  You get a really decent graphics card, a powerful CPU, lots of storage, a beautiful screen...so much bang for the buck (I bought for $999).  Get it and I seriously doubt you will regret it.