ID: B002CR5Y28-R1AG4ITWPSJT4G-A1WRS37DKUC0C7
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-S4212-Neptune-Canister-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A1WRS37DKUC0C7
ReviewerName: D. Rosen "honeygirlkitchen.blogspot.com"
Date: September 1, 2009
Helpful: 60 of 64
Rating: 5.0
Title: Love Is In The Air
Content:
I could not decide between the Polaris and the Neptune...the main difference is that the Neptune comes with a turbo brush and the parquet twister.  I just received it today & have been anticipating it's arrival since I ordered it on Saturday...I am crazy in love.  I have never owned a vacuum that has setting controls...I cleaned the velvet drapes in room on the lowest setting, works like a charm.  I vacuumed all the window sills, door & window moldings, 1731 sq ft of wood floor, bathroom tile & vacuumed the stucco walls in the kitchen.  Oh by the way the maids were just here yesterday...I did not care.  The house looked perfect but now I know it's perfect. 
I vacuumed while my daughter was napping...I could have never done that w/the upright Kenmore I'm retiring.  I'm so happy with this purchase.  I will update this review in 6 months (writing reminder in my Franklin).  Yes, yes love is in the air. XXOXOO
2.19.2010
Six months is around the corner.  I am still in love.  Can I just tell you that my cleaning habits have changed...I once vacuumed once a week maybe twice, since I received my Miele I vacuum every other day (it's crazy I know)I'm so addicted to the clean feeling plus I want to share this scent secret with you...when I change the vacuum bag I put 14-18 drops of my favorite essential oil on cotton ball vacuum it up & every time I vacuum that scent is distributed thru the whole house.  My favorite scent right now is Lemongrass by Aura Cacia...so natural.  I don't know about you but we have 2 pooches and after a few vacuums you can get a musty rank smelling vacuum air...well the essential oil prevents that smell completely.  
Back to the vacuum itself.  It really does perform like all the 5 stars it's rated to be.  Good luck I hope you do invest in one of these beauties.  Your gonna be in love.