ID: B002PHM0KY-R3H95RQ4QLRX0H-A2MWLHFFMIJ2C2
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VGN-NW240F-15-5-Inch-Windows-Premium
ReviewerID: A2MWLHFFMIJ2C2
ReviewerName: R. Seigel
Date: November 28, 2009
Helpful: 15 of 16
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent alternative to MacBook
Content:
Let me start by saying I have owned and used multiple MacBooks and simply adore their style, usability, and reliability. I also use an iMac at work. That being said, it has become apparent that my aging eyes simply can't use a 13" screen anymore at home, so I needed to find a laptop with a larger screen. A 15" MacBook Pro for $1450 was way out of my price range, so I started looking at new laptops with Windows 7. This Sony quickly caught my eye with what appeared to be a great combination of excellent keyboard, terrific screen, good processor, adequate memory, and decent price, so I went with it.
My initial impressions are excellent. The Sony is notably faster than my old 13" MacBook, the extra screen size is really welcome, and the keyboard easy to type on. Windows 7 has also been a breath of fresh air, MUCH better than either XP or (uggh) Vista. I was extremely impressed that Windows 7 quickly found and loaded drivers for an old HP LaserJet, as easily at the Mac did. I am actually enjoying working on the Sony more than I do my iMac at school (I am a college professor).
Obviously, I don't have enough data after a week (hey, I told you I was a professor) to make any evaluations on reliability. However, the Sony appears well-made and solidly built, and PC World rates them pretty high with their surveys. 
Bottom line is that for $400 less than a 13" MacBook and $600 less than a MacBook with an external monitor (my other alternative), I have a nice, fast, and highly usable laptop that I can use for my work. What more could I add?
One Month Update:
I have been using the Vaio for just over a month now and I am happy to report that my initial positive impressions have been confirmed and that only a couple of relatively minor issues have come up. Reliability has been excellent and I have installed and used multiple programs (Office, Endnote, SigmaPlot) without any glitches at all. I also extended the trial subscription for Norton Internet Security. The laptop is still quick, easy to use, and Windows 7 continues to impress.
The only (minor) criticism I have is the glossy screen, which is an occasional issue during daytime use in my home office. Shifting positions slightly solves that, but others here have found that more of a problem, Certainly something potential buyers should be aware of.