ID: B002BH4QTQ-RVW0S9CDSQZ0I-A3DFRKS0NLMPDJ
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV6-1260SE-15-6-Inch-Entertainment-Laptop
ReviewerID: A3DFRKS0NLMPDJ
ReviewerName: S. Johnson "S. Johnson"
Date: September 12, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 8
Rating: 1.0
Title: Artists' Disappointment.
Content:
I purchased this laptop last week, after extensive research at Best Buy, and online.  Decided to go with HP after a friend at work recommended it.  I wanted an entertainment laptop, and was immediately drawn to this computer.  I was also very impressed that previous reviews gave this product 5 stars so I went with it.  My laptop came in the mail, I was very excited to get it and start playing with it.  I haven't purchased a new computer in over 10 years so I was looking forward to getting it!  
Immediately out of the box, I loved the design.  The computer is beautiful. My husband was excited about the HDMI input so he could watch his Yankees games on the computer.  I began to upload my photos from my flash drives.  That's when the nightmare began.  This computer is equipped with a software called MediaSmart.  It's brand new and even when I called tech support, they had not heard of it.  The problem:  my photos would upload to my computer, but would not upload to media smart.  This software is one of the "artistic version's" big selling points and it didn't work.  I spent my day off of work, completely frustrated, on the phone with HP tech support, on 4 separate occasions, for over 8 hours.  I finally received a call back yesterday stating that HP HAS FOUND THAT OTHER USERS OF THIS LAPTOP HAVE HAD SIMILIAR PROBLEMS WITH THIS COMPUTER, and that they are working on the problem.  I did not expect that, right out of the box, I'd be dealing with such a mess.  The first tech I spoke with at HP logged onto my computer and didn't recognized 2 of the programs installed.  He made me go thru a complete system recovery--that took 2 hours-- He said he'd never heard of these programs and thought that they were spyware.  I told him, there's no way..It's brand new, haven't even gone on the internet yet..  After listening to him, I did a full system recovery and HP called me back after 2 hours.  Boy did they get an earfull.  The 2 programs that "he had never heard of" were actually factory installed by HP with this version.  He just didn't take the time to check it out.  Waste of time--again.  
I am returning this product to Amazon.  Return policy is very easy.  Thank goodness.  I will purchase another laptop from them, however it will not be HP. 
By the way,  I ran a test of the sound on the computer just to check out the speakers, and it went from on--to static--to no sound.  Only when I rebooted it did it work.  
Shame on HP and their tech support.  They should all be retrained on new products coming out, and making sure that they work before they are distributed to the comsumer.