ID: B002OL2PLU-RY5LAVEHLDGBX-A1QVF3ZF10EQZT
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-32-Internet-Tablet-Android
ReviewerID: A1QVF3ZF10EQZT
ReviewerName: Laura Clement "Fern"
Date: October 18, 2009
Helpful: 10 of 13
Rating: 2.0
Title: Released much to early!
Content:
I first must tell you that I am a huge Archos fan and that's why this just breaks my heart to write this review. I have been with Archos since I purchased the AV320 years ago. Since then I have bought almost every Archos model made. Two things have always griped me about Archos's corporate offices in France. First is that they have always treated the American market with little regard when it comes to features offered and tech support. We Americans come last when we potentially could be their biggest most loyal market. Now let's get to the new Archos 5 Internet Tablet with Android. To this date, the majority of discs sent out for the GPS set-up does not work giving you and error that it cannot read the setup wizard file and tech support has no solutions other than to wait for the second party developer, (Ndrive) to send  a fix. This obviously was barely tested before its release and being the GPS feature was  a big selling point, this is almost unforgivable. The FM transmitter on most units does not work properly and the tech support people don't have a clue as why and tell you to wait and see if the next firmware update might fix the problem. Flash is almost unusable. YouTube is out of the question at this point even though the tech support people have heard a second party app may offer flash 10 support. In defense of the American tech support people, it is obvious they have been left in the dark from France headquarters and have been overwhelmed with callers concerning this issue. At this point they are just trying to do damage control. My heart goes out to them. I will tell you from past experience, Archos will eventually fix all these problems but we Americans will get them fixed last. But once all these bugs get worked out, this unit will be superior to most anything out there. And when the 3g phone version of this is released, look out. This will be a monster! It's too bad that Archos seems to shoot themselves in the foot when it comes to the west when it could be such a monster market for them. I guess the arrogant attitude the French have towards Americans bleeds over into the Archos Corporate sales structure for western sales. Oh well, I still love their products when they work.