ID: B002OOWBZW-R1UY96ZDX61OUU-AUTY5VZ6GN3B4
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-T135-S1310-13-3-Inch-Ultrathin
ReviewerID: AUTY5VZ6GN3B4
ReviewerName: Candid in Seattle "DM"
Date: January 23, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent Laptop and a GOOD value
Content:
The T135-S1310 is excellent for travelling and use as a general purpose computer for business users, students or home users. It has good computing performance, features and a reasonable size and weight. I use a Toshiba Dynadock USB Docking Station when working at my home office. By plugging in one USB cable, I have access to a DVD/CD drive - not included with the T135, a full size keyboard, a SINGLE large HD monitor, good speakers, additional USB ports and a hard-wired internet connection. Although not perfect, I am very satisfied with the overall value & cost of this configuration.
Up-side:
1. The screen is larger than a netbook, but small enough that I can work on an airplane - in the middle seat in the coach section.
2. The keyboard is OK - it took a couple of hours to get use to the touch and size - no complaints.
3. The overall size and weight are excellent - a netbook is too small for me, and other notebooks are too big and heavy for in-city commuting and long-distant travel.
4. The built-in Bluetooth capabilities allow me to use a larger mouse without sticking another external device into USB ports. - skip the Best Buy model since it lacks this feature and the extra price for a Bluetooth mouse is worth it.
5. This machine is exceptionally fast for most applications; the memory is more than adequate
6. Windows 7 seems to work OK even with the usual Microsoft bugs and time spent and pain suffered mind-melding with their creative-idiosyncrasies. People, it's an operating system!
7. The battery life is fantastic, and even better if I turn down the brightness level on the monitor!
8. The monitor is excellent, and even when dimmed to the max, it is good and much easier on my eyes.
Down-side:
1. Finger prints on the shiny surfaces look disgusting! People, what are you thinking!
2. The buttons on the touchpad are "way too hard" to click and disappointing ---- usable, but OUCH! I prefer to use the mouse whenever possible. I've tried more than 15 laptops in stores before making purchases.
3. Do not expect to watch videos on an external HD monitor when plugged into the Toshiba Docking Station - not a huge problem for a "work" computer. Videos displayed on the laptop monitor really are excellent!
Reliability Note: My first Toshiba is a different model that is less expensive, and too large and heavy for me. It is in the shop being serviced after about 9 months of use. I am very pleased with the responsiveness and efficiency of Toshiba's call-in technicians and procedure for sending the machine to the service center. To be realistic, I've never expected to get more than one year of useful life from laptops. I'm waiting to see how well the service center handles the repair.
As with any laptop, make sure you backup critical files onto a thumb drive daily, and know how to reinstall applications such as MS-Office.
Overall: I am thrilled with BOTH Toshiba computers, the Dynadock -- and the price point. I am extremely disappointed that consumers are buying shiny surfaces - hopefully this fad will end soon. The fingerprints I am looking at on this machine and my iPod are foul and disgusting. I AM a real guy and ABSOLUTELY NOT neat or clean!
That is all! ;)