ID: B002FWMF8G-R2JLJ6TREQ6ZWL-AEL6CQNQXONBX
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Mr-Coffee-BVMC-FM1-20-Ounce-Frappe
ReviewerID: AEL6CQNQXONBX
ReviewerName: Cute Chihuahua
Date: December 23, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: Impressive! It really does make a perfect Frappe, well designed, BRAVO!!
Content:
Length:: 1:02 MinsMy Wife and I have been hooked on Starbucks Frappuccino's for years. We have tried to create our own version of them at home but they were never quite the same until we tried the Mr Coffee Frappe Maker. It's so easy to use, all you do is add your water, coffee and other special ingredients depending on what type of frappe you are making and it will do the rest. First it will brew the coffee and then automatically blend it to perfection. We have another frozen beverage blender that we used prior to the frappe maker but it never done well with chopping up chocolate chips or pieces of chocolate. The frappe maker will chop it so finely that you can hardly see it just like at Starbucks. I think they done a very good job designing it because it blends to a perfect consistency and it seems to be far superior to any of our previous blenders. 
The machine itself is very attractive looking and has a small footprint, which is nice when you have limited countertop room. The only thing I personally would change about it would be to make it stainless steel. Please note that there isn't any coffee filters included inside so you will need to plan accordingly and purchase a pack of 4-cup coffee filters. You will also need some straws so you might want to pick some up as well.    
They include quick start guide that is pretty easy to understand and will get you started fast. They also include a wonderful recipe book that contains 20 frappe recipes. If you follow the recipes exactly then you can't go wrong because they worked perfectly for us. There are some excellent recipes in this book like the Chocolate Chip Mocha Frappe that tastes almost identical to Starbucks Java Chip Frappuccino. There are normal frappe recipes like the Mississippi Mud Pie Frappe or the Banana Split Mocha Frappe. There are alcoholic coffee frappes like the Mexican Coffee Frappe with Kahlua and tequila or the Black Russian with Kahlua and Vodka. And there are tea frappes like the Green Tea Frappe or the Tropical Tea Frappe.
Everything except for the base is dishwasher safe. The cost of this unit is a little on the high side but it is well worth it when compared to what you would be spending at your favorite coffee house. If you love frozen cofffee like I do then I really think you should give the Mr Coffee Frappe Maker a try, you won't be disappointed.