ID: B002PHM0IQ-R2QNFK6AC0N2IS-A1W0F44RSKL4RB
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VPC-CW13FX-14-Inch-Windows-Premium
ReviewerID: A1W0F44RSKL4RB
ReviewerName: S. Chamberlain
Date: December 30, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 10
Rating: 1.0
Title: No More Sony for me!
Content:
No more Sony anything for me.  
My pink laptop started making loud noises and CPU utlization goes up to 40% and stays there for having one browser window with no plug-ins opened.  
Closing the lid does not put the computer to sleep as set.  Sony Backup thing keeps popping up when computer is turned on and no way to make it go away, even after clicking "don't show again".
Media control button stopped working.  
Function buttons that adjusts the brightness, sound, screen position stopped working.  
Screen started flickering.  
I've only had this computer for 3 months. Love the pinkness and hate everything else.
Spent hours talking to tech support on Dec 23 online and on the phone.  Was told to take computer into local service desk.  Found one at Beverly Center and spent Christmas Eve there. Technician told me I have to have the receipt with me (would be nice for them to tell me when I called to make the appointment). And that they have to ship in the computer and it would take at least 2 weeks for me to get it back because the Service Desk can't do anything at the store except help customers ship in the computer. 
Spent another 45 min on the phone with Service Center on the phone to schedule someone to come out instead.  
Was told technician would come out and fix it in 3 business days.  3 business days have come and gone... no calls.. so called in today to find out what's up.  Been on the phone for 2 hours now just to try to get the time the technician would come out.  
Asked them what part was shipped out to fix these problems and was told "the fan".  AMAZING FAN!!! A simple fan can fix all these issues!!!! 
Turns out that Sony outsource the service to a company called Nexicore and after 2 hours, Sony just told me here's the number to Nexicore... try calling them. Sweet deal. Back to Dell from now on.