ID: B002MZYZHU-RZMBGJJV4K7WI-A26LD9FQHTM8ZH
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Breville-BKC700XL-Single-Serve-Coffeemaker-Iced-Beverage
ReviewerID: A26LD9FQHTM8ZH
ReviewerName: OlyNomad
Date: December 14, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Earns every star
Content:
I echo all of the raves about this machine, they are well-earned. The most important thing I have to add is this does give you strong coffee.  I had read other reviews where people were saying it was weak or watered down and I think they might want to try adjusting the settings or using a different brand of coffee.  I was using inexpensive, big box store brand coffee and it was sincerely the best cup of coffee I have ever had in my house.  It was too strong for my husband and he had to add water his first cup and then used less grounds the next time.  
The things I absolutely love about this unit are that you can use your own coffee, you do not need to buy special cups, although those are fun if you go that route or are nice to treat yourself to now and then.  I don't think they could have designed it any better, it looks sleek and fantastic on the counter. It's quiet, the water heats up quickly, it brews quickly. You can adjust the temperature, that is a huge bonus for me.  I like my coffee really hot where I can't even sip it at first.  My husband likes his cooler and ready to drink.  You can adjust the cup size, also a major perk because we have different sized cups.
I have never in my life been amped up about a coffee machine before.  And for all the features it comes with, you'd think it would be complicated to figure out but it's not at all.  The menu is very simple and if it wasn't for the fact I wanted to make sure I primed it the right way first, I wouldn't have even had to use the manual to brew coffee.  
It did not come with the sample pack listed, but I contacted Breville and they were very cool and sent one out, no problems.
A couple suggestions/tips.  Our machine when we got it kept saying "refill tank" even though the water was full.  I read the manual and it said if the machine had been exposed to really cold temps...to leave it setting out to get to room temperature.  Mine had been exposed to below freezing temps for days, so we did that and plugged it back in and that message was gone and we had no further problems with it.
Also, might want to pick up an extra reusable filter if you like multi-cups of coffee or have more than one user in the house.  Saves you having to clean it out right away, you can just exchange them out between cleanings.
Bottoms up!