ID: B002PK156Q-R13FKRLOMOJUWC-AS53UK5IKIRHJ
Category: Laptops
Product: Lenovo-G550-15-6-Inch-Black-Laptop
ReviewerID: AS53UK5IKIRHJ
ReviewerName: Suresh Subramaniam
Date: December 23, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 6
Rating: 1.0
Title: Lenovo - avoid it
Content:
My purchase from Lenovo left a bitter taste in my mouth.  I purchased a Lenovo G550 in 
November 2009.  I was looking for a basic laptop for my daughter who only browses, chats and 
does her homework on the computer.  I did not really need all the multi-media and high end 
graphics so touted by all computer sellers.  My search narrowed to Dell and Lenovo.  I 
already had a Dell and it was working fine after 3 years. I did some research and talked to 
some friends and some of them recommended Lenovo.  My company provides Lenovo laptops for 
its employees to use.  I normally find that at least one of my team members have to go the 
technical support to repair their laptops every week and I dont have a very large team.  In 
spite of all this adverse information regarding Lenovo quality, I still took the plunge and 
ordered a G550.  The deal was good at $449.  
One of the first things that gave me a pause was that Lenovo advertised the laptop as 
"Intel® Dual-Core Processor" leaving out the word "Pentium" (they have corrected this hence, 
maybe due to feedback from customers).  I thought in the beginning that it was a Intel Core 
2 Duo processor and was delighted to get one at this price.  Later after some more research 
it turned out to a "Pentium' processor which is inferior to Core 2 Duo.  Some blame should 
also go to Intel for this similar naming, but other computer sellers include the word 
"Pentium".  
I ordered it and they shipped it (Customer Number: 4969111, Order: 2E1LJR).  It took about 
15 days to arrive which was normal as per the lead time published on their site.  But, while 
tracking the package, I found that the laptop was shipped from China, and passed through 
Korea and Japan before reaching Alaska and I was wondering how Lenovo could afford to ship 
an individual package from China to US and still be competitive.
The laptop arrived and we opened and installed it.  An irritating setup feature was the 
numerous preloaded advertisements in the laptop asking you to subscribe to some service or 
the other.  It was like doing an online survery.
I liked the face recognition feature.  The laptop was solid enough, a little heavy and bulky 
but I had known that.  After 2 days my daughter reported that the laptop was not shutting 
down.  When you try to shut it down, it goes to the One Key Rescue Screen.  When you try to 
exit the One Key Rescue, it gives you two options - either you can reboot or shutdown.  If 
you choose Reboot it would restart again.  If you choose Shutdown, it would go off and 
restart again and go back to the One Key Rescue screen.  You are stuck in an infinite loop.  
I called Technical Support and the nightmare started.  I had to hold for more than 30 
minutes to speak to a Technical Support person.  I explained the problem to her.  After a 
pause and some background conversation she again asked me to repeat the problem.  Again she 
went off and there was some background converation.  I could hear a male voice and some 
giggling in the background.  She came on again and asked me repeat the problem.  By this 
time I was mad and told her that I had repeated it twice before and was she not taking 
notes? I repeated the problem and she was attentive this time.  
She put me through all the steps of getting the order number, serial number and trying to 
troubleshoot the problem like taking out the battery and reinstalling it and so on but no 
avail.  Then she gave me a case number (Case # wn147498)  and told me to call Sales and give 
the case number and they will help me.  I told her that if I called again I would have to 
hold for another 30 minutes, but she said that she cannot transfer me and I would have to 
call the 800 number again.
So the next day I called the number again and after a hold of 40 minutes I got Sales.  I 
gave them the case number and the customer support person said that she wanted the Order 
number and not the case number (which was in contradiction to what Tech support said).  I 
told that I had called tech support and I had a case number but she was adamant that she 
wanted the order number.  I told her to hold on so that I could get the order number from 
the box, and she disconnected the call.  By then I was again mad.  
I called again next day and choose the option for Returns thinking that it could be easier.  
A recorded voice said that since they had 'unexpected high call volumes' the hold would be 
more than 30 minutes and the call was disconnected.  I persisted and called again this time 
choosing the 'Sales'option.  This time there was no recorded message.  It was clear that 
they wanted to discourage returns and only wanted to talk to people who were trying to buy.  
After a hold of over 40 minutes I got a customer support person.  I explained the problem to 
him. He went through all the normal routine of how sorry he was that I had this problem and 
asked me to hold on.  He conferenced in a technical support person who seemed to be Chinese, 
from the accent.  I again explained my problem to this person and he asked me if I had done 
the steps of taking out the battery, etc and I said yes.  Then he announced that I would 
have to return the laptop and Lenovo will replace it.  I asked him if I had the option of 
returning it for a refund and he said no.  The only option was replacement.
I was fuming again by this time and asked him why refund was not an option.  He just 
repeated that I could not get a refund.  This made up my mind.  Till now, although I had a 
rough time with their customer service, I was willing to give Lenovo the benefit of doubt 
and had only wanted a replacement.  When the technical support guy said that refund was not 
an option, then I decided that I dont want a replacement and wanted no association with this 
company.  
When the customer support person detected that I was getting angry he broke in and told the 
technical support guy to can it and told him that he will handle it.  Then the customer 
support guy told me that I could return it and get a refund if I wanted it.  I said yes and 
he gave me a RMA number.  He also sent me an email providing the details.  I think this 
person repaired some of the damage his company's reputation had suffered in my eyes.  
After that it was smooth.  I sent the laptop back, they gave me the refund.  I was half 
afraid that they would find some excuse not to refund the amount fully but it did not 
happen.  
I bought a Dell the next day.