ID: B002PHM0LS-R32UH74LZ3T7NI-A3UTAQZH5XOZCI
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VGN-NW270F-15-5-Inch-Windows-Premium
ReviewerID: A3UTAQZH5XOZCI
ReviewerName: Unhappy W. Sony
Date: February 12, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 1.0
Title: Fragile LCD
Content:
Vaio Laptop VGNNW270F
Six weeks ago I purchased a new Sony VGNNW270F laptop.  One week ago, the laptop was sitting on the table and my husband moved it 6 inches.  He admits to having had his thumb on the screen.  Within an hour the screen went "Mondrian-like".  We scoured the computer to find out what was wrong but could find no visible problem.  We called Sony and sent it back, confident that they would stand behind their product.  Unfortunately, that was not the case.  According to Sony the screen was cracked internally and was not covered under warranty and would cost $500 to fix.
My husband is an IT professional and has handled hundreds if not thousands of laptops, he has never seen an LCD break this easily.  He spent quite a bit of time on the phone with Sony explaining that it had to be defective or clearly too fragile for a laptop.  They would not budge.  That is their prerogative.  I have since experimented with other laptops and have carried them around the house by the lid with my thumb on the screen, never mind just moving it 6 inches on a stable surface.  I am finding it impossible to break them in that fashion and would likely have to drop it or bang it against a wall to break it.  Clearly the Sony LCD is much too fragile for laptop use.  One buys a laptop because it is portable and to be portable requires a certain level of durability - the Sony Vaio does not pass muster.
I'm not sure if a $1000 piece of equipment lasting 5 weeks is a record, but it certainly is for my bank account.  I will never buy another piece of Sony equipment of any kind after this experience.  
Their advertising tag line is make. believe - I now understand it because I now have to "make believe" I have a computer or "make believe" I can afford to shell out another $1000 for a laptop - albeit NOT a Sony.