ID: B002P3KMVC-R2JLIIIC54KZ92-AA3U2HXOE34ZU
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30A-X5-Light-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: AA3U2HXOE34ZU
ReviewerName: J. lee
Date: December 7, 2009
Helpful: 12 of 15
Rating: 5.0
Title: Most Amazing light weight  Laptop-HD movie support
Content:
Most Amazing light weight  Laptop-HD movie support
I get this beautiful laptop UL30a-X5 last week and now I am so happy with this my little toy.
Main reason for buying this laptop is portability, internet surfing and HD movie support like X264, H264,TS files  without any freezing. Before I purchase this laptop I researched over a month for my personal taste.
1.portability---less than 4 lb weight
2.HD movie support
3. screen size-10in and even though 12" seems little small.
4. Battery life--at least 6hr minimum
5. Hard drive and ram---Minimum 320 GB and 4GB ram
6. Window 7
Then I pick Samsung NC20 , HP DM3, Acer time line, Asus UL30
Finally I choose Asus UL30 when it is one sale on Amazon.com.
I will state this laptop with my personal experiences.
1.	Wireless ----------I have Verizon Fios and download speed 25mbps/15mbps and I brought this laptop to upstair and laptop catch very nice signal 4of 5 and bring it downstairs and it show same good signal and no problems at all as other reviewers complain. My DESKTOP show 3 Mbps download speed and this laptop show little less 2.8 or 3.0 Mbps. I love this one. It means that you can watch movie in your bed room and download movie at the same time.
2.	Portability--------- Weight is 3.8 lb with my logitech vx laser wireless mouse adapter (this mouse is so good AND USB adapter is just ½ inch pop out after you insert.)
3.	HD movie support ---------------I  ran HD quality movie size 1.4gb with x264,h264,Ts format file show without any freezing screen. But some of movie show little bit blurred. ----I found out this problem come from HD movie not this computer problem.
4.	Sound -------------Good  and loud enough to listen
5.	Screen---Good quality screen but viewing angle is little bit limited. Especially when you watch movie with other person seat next to you.
6.	Battery life-----I watch HD movie and it last 4hour and still 25% of battery remain so I can enjoy when I am in the airplane.
7.	Touch pad ---------------OK  --I compared to HP dm3 this one is much better but I hope Asus may need to upgrade this pad.
8.	Quick access button-----Easy to access to web with one touch button in a 5 second (I feel like but I didn't count), My daughter love this function she can access web, music and game site easily.
9.	Software ------this laptop doesn't have full MS office and only trial version just 25 times run. If you have Office you need to install it by yourself after trial---MS office 2007 work good. Window 7 is very nice and easy to use and very comfortable. You must try this new OS.
10.	Multi task-----During watching movie I can download other movie file and listen to music without any problem.
11.	Virus Protection-----I didn't use given virus program and I download MS virus program from MS site and it is free.
12.	Face capture logon-----This is very fascinating function and my daughter love this. When you log on you don't need to type the password just show your face in front of cam and computer figure out but before you use this function you have to set up this program with a pose to take 30 shots continuously.
13.	Heat and Hard drive sound---------Heat is coming from left near monitor and it is ok to endure and Hard drive sound just little noisy but it can acceptable.
All of this review is my personal experience but I hope it will give some help someone looking for good quality portable laptop with nice size screen.
P.S I add additional comments after I use this laptop for travel to cancun.
In the cancun wifi work so great and it shows good signal in hotel room and also I test HD movie during in airplane and it shows 65% remain battery life after I  watch HD movies for 3.5 hr of flight ( I choose Entertainment mode and it save battery life when you just watching movie). People were amazed after they look at my laptop in the airplane and they told me that picture and graphic quality is so sharp and crispy.
During the flight I used earphone and the sound quality is very good and it is better than my MP3 player. Also heat is very little on the bottom left side of computer.
During the 10 days of trip, I took almost 15GB of pictures and movies and it transfer to my new Asus ul30a-X5 every night because my canon camera has 8GB SD card. After I test several HD movie file I found little blurry is only the problem of the HD file.
Final comment- I really love this little and lovely laptop and I will carry this one every day in my bed and travel. 13 in is perfect size and good 3.7lb portable weight. I am so happy with this laptop. ^^