ID: B002Q8HK7K-R24G4RFA5OX3SZ-AOQ5HZQ6R9LH6
Category: Laptops
Product: UL80Vt-A1-14-Inch-Light-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: AOQ5HZQ6R9LH6
ReviewerName: William Robert Miller "med_student"
Date: December 28, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: A true portable laptop...
Content:
I've had the Asus UL80Vt-A1 laptop for just over a month now, and I've been impressed with it so far. I bought this laptop for school and office work as well as entertainment in between doing my school and office work. It has not disappointed so far.
Some people are complaining about the build quality, but while the build quality is not the greatest, it is not the worst either. It is about average for a laptop that is in the $800 to $900 range. I like the finish and housing on this model of laptop, but it is a finger print magnet as others have mentioned.
The screen is good and plenty adequate, and I haven't suffered any eye strain even when working on it for 8 and 12 hours. Again, for a laptop in this price range don't expect the best notebook lcd screen. When watching movies or playing games have not had any issues with the screen.
The biggest pro I can give this laptop is the bang you get for your buck because the battery life is phenomial. In battery saving mode, I routinely get 9 to 12 hours off the battery while working with MS Office 2007 apps, surfing the net, and listening to music. I had"turbo boost" and the G210 graphics card on, played S.T.A.L.K.E.R. at the highest settings, and still got right at 4 hours out of the battery. Same goes for watching Star Trek. The fact that you can switch between the graphics processors and you can "turbo boost" (overclock) the dual core processors make this a very versatile computing machine.
If you are looking for a gaming laptop where you can play the latest and newest games at the fastest fps possible with all the bells and whistles turned up graphically, this is not the notebook pc for you, but it does play games adequately enough. I've played Fear 2, S.T.A.L.K.E.R., and Oblivion just fine, and it will run most games that are early 2009 and older just fine.
The trackpad is not the greatest, but it is adequate for office apps and surfing the net. I prefer to use a mouse with my laptop when it is feasible anyways.
In summary, my logic in choosing this laptop over others was for it's battery life, portablility, and versatility. If you are going to buy a laptop that you have to plug into an outlet every 2 hours or less, you might as well lug your desktop pc around. This a true portable laptop that doesn't require you to tied down and anchored to an outlet.
PROS: Decent price point
      Battery life
      Windows 7
      One of the few "ultra light" or "ultra portable" laptops with an optical drive.
      Versatility
      
CONS: Finish and housing are finger print magnets
      At 4.4 pounds, it is on the heavier and thicker side for an "ultra light or portable" laptop
      Not the best trackpad