ID: B002SG7LW4-R3M1NYRT3TMUG5-A2P5C9UBMVRYIR
Category: Laptops
Product: Lenovo-Thinkpad-14-Inch-Black-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2P5C9UBMVRYIR
ReviewerName: Vinci "Nijo"
Date: December 27, 2009
Helpful: 12 of 13
Rating: 5.0
Title: GREAT Laptop!
Content:
I purchased the Lenovo SL410 after my trusty, 5 year old Dell finally died and I must say, I am extremely impressed. 
For the price ($625), I have yet to see any others come close. In fact, this definitily seems like a much more expensive machine than it is. The design, although boring and old looking at first, has really grown on me and I have come to appreciate the simple beauty of it. No fancy case or buttons, just simple and easy to use features that always work instantly one pressed or used. 
The trackpad is great and it even has the scroll feature on the right side, which is extremely useful when browsing the web. The keyboard is also of great size and response and is even spill proof! Really, it has drains which will drain any spilled liquid on the keyboard. I love this feature, since I replaced the keyboard on my old Dell TWICE for this reason.
Windows 7 has been great. I never owned a Vista, but did work on a few and it was awful. The Windows 7 that is installed in the SL410 has been wonderful. It is basically Vista with all the bugs worked out! 
The number 1 thing about this laptop is the SCREEN! Not sure if its standard, bu the one i have has the glossy HD screen and it is unreal. HD video on this is bar none! Similar to the the screens on a Mac. Great!
A close 2nd favorite thing on this is the build-in Wi-Fi. WOW! My signal strenth is always powerful no matter where in my house. My sister has a Dell Mini Netbook, which she paid $550 for less than a year ago, and she cant get any wifi from her room. With the Lenovo, I have full signal strenth from my room which is much furhter from the wifi point in our house! Unreal.
I purchased this as a work travel/home laptop so I didnt need all the fancy media packages that HP and those other brands offer, but this thing has rocked for media. I am an avid photographer and this thing has no problem working with my DSLR, Flip Videos and other gadgets i have. I also use with my iPhone and iPod and have yet to experience issues or delay.
I did my research before purchasing and nothing in this same price point can compare.
I strongly reccomend this to anyone looking for a fast, reliable and efficient machine for work or play.