ID: B002M3SOCE-R39WC7HDPN3UVB-A155X478ONY1T4
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-touch-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A155X478ONY1T4
ReviewerName: Seussboy
Date: November 2, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: A Great PMP
Content:
I have now had the iPod touch for about 2 weeks and I really enjoy using it!  It has incredible features, the screen looks fabulous, and there's enough space in it to put 5 times the amount of music I currently own!  Own of the features that I found really helpful was the Windows compatibility, because most of my music was on a Windows computer which was transferred flawlessly from the PC iTunes program.  I have found so many fun apps and also many apps, such as Rhapsody, which I find myself using constantly to listen to songs I don't own.  One unfortunate thing that seems to be a common trait in the iPod touch (I have used two and both had this flaw) is that there is space between the screen and the sides, which, when you are in a dark room, makes the light from the screen visible through those cracks.  This may not bother you, but I am very picky about these kind of things and I find it a bit annoying when watching a video in a dark room; it's certainly not enough to make me give back the iPod but it is something to think about if that kind of thing bothers you.  
      The apps, the web browser and iTunes on the iPod are all features which I find myself using a lot.  The apps, with more than 100,000, are so varied and extensive in choice, you can find apps which turn your iPod touch into everything from a practical alarm clock to, my personal favorite, a fart machine.  Also, with the new processor, the speed difference loading games is very noticeable as I have a friend with an iPhone who, when I began playing a game, immediately exclaimed, "Wow!  Yours is so fast!"  The web browser is a great, fast browser and it loads complex pages in very little time.  If you don't have a computer with you, this is a great alternative.  iTunes on the iPod is one of the coolest things ever, as I use it mainly for podcasts which you can download directly onto the Touch.  I have also used it to download a TV show, which looked fantastic on the 480:320 screen.  Music quality, with myself not being an audiophile, sounds great to me, even on the included earphones with which many people seem to have a problem.  The remote control on the included earphones is extremely helpful if you do not want to take the iPod out of your pocket.
      I love my iPod touch.  It is a great music, video, and game player, and with such an extensive app store there are so many uses for it.  It can even send free text messages to cell phones! I highly suggest it for everyone who wants a product which, as everyone seems to say, does everything you need and more!