ID: B002C744K6-R27R5473LS6D6S-A17BT73RVRQYSP
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MC118LL-15-4-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A17BT73RVRQYSP
ReviewerName: Peter Ingemi
Date: October 23, 2009
Helpful: 32 of 104
Rating: 1.0
Title: Pretty machine, pretty poor support
Content:
I'm a PC guy, I've owned PC for 20 years and done professional support on them for over a decade and I've never seen service as I've seen with the Macbook Pro 15"
The Machine itself is sleek and pretty, the display looks nice and it has a comfortable fit to it.  The processor etc seems to do what needs to be done and does it well.  It is however twice the price of a compatible PC.
That in itself wouldn't be much of a problem.  Until there was a problem.
My son wanted a Mac, as his first machine, since he was paying for it we checked out Macs and bought this model, he was very pleased with it until he opened up the casing yesterday and the display looked like the a squashed spider from a Garfield cartoon.
I drove the hour to the apple store and am currently sitting in it.  I talked to a manager named Lloyd and a "genius" named Henry and they informed me that the damage was our responsibility and that repairs would cost $1100.  That is 70% of the cost of the machine and that price alone is more expensive than a compatible Windows 7 machine.
I have been involved in customer service for a lot of years and I've never seen anything so short sighted in my life, my son will be purchasing a lot of machines over the next 40 years, I'll be purchasing several myself and have another son who will be going to college in a couple of years.  As a technical support person I am called to recommend machines and companies.  The willingness to discard customers once the money is in hand is beyond anything I've ever seen in my life.
I'm afraid that slick media and good actors selling a product is no replacement for actual customer service.
You couldn't get me to buy an apple now with a federal bailout.  And you shouldn't either!