ID: B002P3KMVC-R31CTEA7H4JUN1-A1WTFITIH0IWDV
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30A-X5-Light-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A1WTFITIH0IWDV
ReviewerName: M. Aliberti
Date: December 28, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 12
Rating: 3.0
Title: Average notebook with great battery life
Content:
I own 5 notebook/netbooks ranging from [...] to [...] and the Asus was a disappointment. This is the 2nd Asus I had returned in the past 6 months; UL30a and Ul50AG. The build quality seems cheap, everyone is always telling me how great the Asus computers are but I have yet to be satisfied by the build quality.
The battery life was great but everything else was average at best.  I know the price point was the factor and I can't compare this to my Vaio TZ but my Gateway Netbook LT3103 has a better quality and it was only [...]
Appearance
The metal top is nice but its a finger print magnet, its worse than the shiny cheap plastic they used on the inside.
The frame around the screen is cheap and the plastic scratches easily, it has some kind of blue specs embedded in the paint. The seams on top of the screen is cheap and uneven with rough edges. 
The large HDD is nice but  makes clicking noises every now and then.
The screen is bright but the vertical and horizontal viewing is horrible, the colors get washed out and becomes useless at certain angles.
Mouse pad is average, not one of the better features on the UL30a. 
Wireless card never dropped any connections but the signal level is poor.  My 5 year old laptop gets better range than the Atheros card inside the UL30a.
The camera is a joke, my BlackBerry has a better camera.
PROS:
Battery life 8hrs with screen on 100% Wifi on , spread sheets and firfox with multiple tabs open.
Big hard drive 500GB
Very light and portable
Warranty, 1 Year of accidental Damage
Win 7
CONS:
Fingerprint magnet 
Cheap plastic around screen and palm rest area
Loud Hard drive 
Flex on the keyboard
ASUS bloatware
Camera
Build quality
If you need a notebook with great battery life, than this may be the notebook, I have not seen anything with this screen size get any where near this.
If you get erpriannoyed buy fingnts and cheap plastic, avoid this unit. I wish they would have made this a little more solid.
The guts of the computer is average.
So, if you need a bigger screen with a "Little" more speed than a netbook and great battery life this will do perfect.
If you get bothered by cheap parts and build avoid this.