ID: B002C745OQ-RKLUXQ7SA4Q3Y-A251AUO4BYE25Q
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB986LL-15-4-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A251AUO4BYE25Q
ReviewerName: Mark H. Webster
Date: November 22, 2009
Helpful: 12 of 12
Rating: 5.0
Title: 12 years of windows, and now, liking the mac
Content:
I didn't want to convert over to mac land. As a college teacher and a twelve year windows user, I was a windows convert. I live and work on a windows network of 60 pc's. I tried to find a windows laptop that had good reviews, was relatively light and thin, was made from aluminum and had a battery life of 6 hours. I was unable to find anything that fit those parameters except this macbook. 
Most of the software I use on a daily basis was windows, so when I bought this mac I also bought Parallels, and a copy of Vista so that I could run vista in a virtual window on my mac. I wasn't about to run out and buy all new software just because I bought a laptop with a goofy operating system.
Three months in, to my surprise, I am running most of my software in the mac os. It runs better there. The mac operating system is more reliable than windows. When people used to tell me that, I blew them off, thinking they were just mac fanboys. 
I'm not a fanboy yet, but I am impressed with this new laptop. I did buy office 2007 for windows so I could use excell on the mac. Yes I know there is a mac version, but I also needed it on my other computer, which is a pc. I have had up to 9 word documents open simultaneously on my mac, in vista with no problems. Occasionally I see some lagging, and, as with any windows application, either office will crash from time to time, or vista will freeze up. 
The cool thing about this macbook pro is that when windows goes belly up, or appears to be thinking about it, I simply click the mac desktop under vista's virtual window and  open some mac software to carry on working. Windows will either die, or sort itself out as I work in mac land. Windows does not stop me from working as it dies, because it is just a virtual window, and the mac os is always running behind it, ready to go. 
In three months, I've only seen the mac os crash twice, and both times it was my fault. Once it was when I was trying to sync my blackjack 2 with the mac email software. Windows mobile does not like running in a virtual vista window (via parallels), so I had to find some crossover mac software so I could sync my windows cell phone with my new converted mac address book. That was tricky, and cost $50, but now the two machines (macbook and blackjack 2 cell phone) are on speaking terms.
The battery life is as impressive as advertised. I've never timed it to the end, but I do know it went 5 hours one time, and was not out of juice yet. I missed explorer for a while, but once I got used to the mac finder and realized that the mac does have a directory path, I could find my way around. Now I am faster in finder than I am in explorer.
I am a power user. I run the adobe creative suite, and frequently have photoshop, indesign, illustrator and dreamweaver open at the same time. Plus I will be running office in vista, with several browers open. The mac has no problem keeping all these software applications running simultaneously. Safari is a cool browser. I like it better than firefox.
There are of course a lot of other cool things I could comment on, but others already have. I'm glad I bought a macbook pro, instead of a windows laptop. It's an awesome machine. Yes it costs more, but you get what you pay for and I wanted something that would last a long time.