ID: B002L6HDTC-R2VJTBA3MCFGKT-AOKM449R7UEI6
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Black-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: AOKM449R7UEI6
ReviewerName: C. Merryman "Bukkake Boy"
Date: December 26, 2009
Helpful: 0 of 2
Rating: 2.0
Title: Good for Runners and Gym-Rats.  The Camera is a Gimmick
Content:
Portable music players play music.  And I work out to music. That's what they're designed for.  The 8GB 5th generation nano is exactly like the 4th generation, only it has a camera and radio.  Yet with the camera, realize that you can't take pictures, just make video.
The radio feature on the ipod is nice, though when I use my nano, I am listening to my music.  Radio is also not a new feature on portables.  Most Walkmans in the 80s had a radio on it, but it was dropped eventually since people wanted to listen to their tapes, not commercials.  I can also shoot video.  Why I would want to shoot video while I'm at the gym, I don't know.  Why can't I take pictures?  Perhaps that will be the new gimmick of next year's model.  Its all basically new, quaint, yet useless features on the nano.  Perhaps adding a gps or wifi capability would have been better for those who use it to work out or hike.  I tend to use my cell phone to access internet radio via a 3G network, but I'm guessing Apple has that planned for later models and avid nano fans to spend money on.  I can see something like Satellite radio or HD radio on the Nano next year.  Get ready to feel the radiation while you're out and about.  
The nano has games on it, as well as a pin-sized speaker for listening via an external source.  If you're into playing games on a 1-inch screen, you'll love it.  Otherwise there are cell phones out there with similar games on it, and they're just as well.  The Nano comes with a pedometer program.  Good for walkers.  There is no running program.  I'm assuming they want users to pay the extra 60 bucks for the attachment Nike is selling.  I tend to run tracks and treadmills for time, so it isn't too much of an issue.  
If you never have owned a nano before, work out or travel a lot, this is probably your best bet.  I love music when I run and lift.  The nano is now small enough to fit in your runner's pocket, and is somewhat water resistant since I've had it on during the rain. The blue color is nice, but ultimately cosmetic.
The new apple Shuffle requires you to use their earbud headphones to work now, while the nano still allows third party headphones, however the radio tuner doesn't work with them.  I enjoy this product a lot because its easy to set up and go.  With 8GB of storage, I have plenty of music to workout to, though I tend to just upload mixes premade so I'm not thumbing through playlists while running.  Nano still only works with Itunes, which is still terrible, but its gotten a lot better since it allows quick transfer from my much faster music organizer Foobar.  
In the end I like this product for its essential use while exercising.  I don't see much use for the other features while I'm working out, so if you can get a deal on last year's model you'll do just fine.  All my apple products still work, including the first shuffle that came out, so I recommend the new nano I recieved for its durability.