ID: B002P3KMVC-R2WO3U2TNSEIK0-A4RE3R82PXQJR
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30A-X5-Light-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A4RE3R82PXQJR
ReviewerName: PnNm
Date: January 14, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great notebook, but not perfect
Content:
From the reviews here, you would think that this computer is perfect (i.e. with not one flaw). I got mine a few days ago, and I can tell you it's as close to perfect as you will find in a laptop.  I was a netbook early adopter (EeePC 701, with a roomy 4 GB solid-state hard drive!), and was left unsatisfied by the small screen size (7") and the severe lack of computing power.  Needless to say, the ASUS UL30A is a step up in terms of performance and features, and one that manages to keep the light weight and small form factor.  
First of all, the computer is beautiful: thin and polished.  However, I don't think it will turn heads the way the Dell Vostro v13 will.  I especially like the island keyboard and the brushed aluminum cover. And it's not just looks, this computer has a big hard drive, plenty of DDR3 memory, and a good Core 2 Duo processor.  
But what drew me towards this laptop was the impressive battery life.  Although I'm not getting the quoted 12 hours of battery life (more like 8 hours), I am very happy with being able to go through a day's work or a plane trip on one charge.  The Power4Gear software is a rarity: an OEM software that you'd want to keep.  The default settings are pretty good, and should probably work well for most people.
There's a few things I would change, however.  I would prefer to have two mousepad buttons instead of one, and the button could be a bit thicker.  The power cord connector should pull out easily, such that in case someone trips over the cord the laptop doesn't come down crashing.   Finally, I would have liked dedicated volume buttons instead of the dedicated PgUp/PgDn ones.
Overall, I think this computer provides a better value than its competitors (the Vostro v13, for example).  A beautiful screen, roomy hard drive, plenty of fast memory, long battery life, and the thin-and-light form factor for $650 shipped?  You won't find that anywhere else.