ID: B00267S7TQ-R26YSYC7QCKIHR-A2S37P50AYCUYV
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D5000-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G-Vari-angle
ReviewerID: A2S37P50AYCUYV
ReviewerName: J. Minatel "jimmin"
Date: December 19, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Fantastic pictures and easy to use
Content:
We bought this camera as our first DSLR, a step up from a tiny (pocket size) point and shoot. We got it mostly to take pictures of the kids and their activities, for something that would work better in all light situations.
So far, it has more than exceeded our expectations.
The picture quality is amazing. Even on the automatic settings with no intervention from us, the pictures look professional. The included lens has a very good zoom range, perfect for most room size settings. The lense autofocus works fast as well.
We experimented just a little so far with the adjusting settings manually. Probably the most useful thing to learn to use is the white balance settings, as we do find that our pictures especially in flourescent light come out better if we set the white balance to the right light type manually.
The menus and settings are easy enough to use and learn, but I'd recommend you get a digital field guide kind of book Nikon D5000 Digital Field Guide for the camera to learn the features and see some color examples.
We especially like the burst mode shooting. Depressing and holding the shutter release shoots around 10 frames a second, very useful when trying to get that perfect picture of the kids.
Battery life is excellent as well. We've already taken several hundred photos in just a few weeks (that burst mode does contribute to shooting a lot of frames), we've had the LCD screen on for most of those, used the flash for many and the battery is still nearly full charge.
The camera feels like it's built to last too. While it's not part of Nikon's "professional" line, it feels like something we as average consumers can be confident should last 5-10 years.
We also purchased a longer zoom lense as part of a bundle deal with this. Amazon frequently has deals with this Nikkor 55-200 or other similar lens with the camera. So far I'm really impressed with the shutter speeds I can get with this lens. It's a great addition.
Nikon 55-200mm f/4-5.6G ED IF AF-S DX VR [Vibration Reduction] Zoom Nikkor Lens