ID: B002LEXA64-R8XDM47YG99GJ-A1IBKN1GXYJ3K4
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Aspire-AS1410-8414-11-6-Inch-Sapphire
ReviewerID: A1IBKN1GXYJ3K4
ReviewerName: Dave
Date: August 26, 2009
Helpful: 295 of 311
Rating: 5.0
Title: A great alternative to a "Netbook"
Content:
I keep checking out the Netbooks that come into the hardware lab where I work, looking for something to replace a cheap one I bought for my kids to play with, but they all just seem too small.  As a result I've been poking around the high-end of the Netbook spectrum / low end of the Ultra-portable spectrum for something more usable.  The Acer Aspire 1410 series does a great job of bridging the gap between small low cost "Netbooks" and more expensive "Ultra-portables" (which is what Acer classes this as).  It manages to overcome many of the short comings of Netbooks without getting anywhere near the $1000+ price range of most ultra-portables.  It has a few drawbacks, notably material quality: like a lot of Acer products the plastic molding is attractive and the tolerances are tight.  However the quality of the plastic is more in line with what you would expect with a Netbook (which is to say it is lower density plastic and more likely to scratch or break).  To me it's reasonable that the overall component quality is lower than what I would get if I spent $1000 (display not as nice, finish not as refined, buttons not as responsive, etc...).  Still, overall this is a well put together computer with good build quality considering the price.  While I didn't end up buying one myself if might be the right fit for you:  if you are on a budget and you need a small laptop that can do more than browse web pages this would be a very good choice.
Let's go over the specs:
CPU: The Core 2 ULV SU3500 is a great CPU choice and far more powerful than the Atom CPU found in most Netbooks.  This is a single core (as opposed to the two core "Core2 Duo") Ultra Low Voltage cpu running at 1.4GHz.  Depending on the exact application this CPU is about 3-6x more powerful than the typical Atom Processor.  It also has 3 MB of cache (cache is a form of on-chip high speed memory) vs the Atom's 512 KB.  With 6x the cache of the Atom this CPU is going to spend a lot more time running instructions and a lot less time waiting on the memory sub-system.  It also helps that the Core 2 ULV SU3500 memory bus is about 25% faster than what you will find on an Atom.  The Core2 is technically more power hungry than the Atom but when running applications the difference isn't significant (5 watts for the Core2 vs 1.5 watts for Atom).  The main difference happens when in standby or sleep mode where the Atom will use much less power than the Core2 (because the kind of transistors on the Atom "leak" less power than those used on the Core2 when in those modes).  So if you need long battery life while carrying your computer around in standby with brief periods of activity you might prefer the Atom based Netbooks (say for sales calls on the road).  I think most users will probably prefer the Core2 - I know that I do.  Update: there may be a dual core version of this coming out soon.  It's on the list to arrive where I work but that doesn't mean it will be sold in the US.
MEMORY: 2GB of DDR2 RAM is plenty and the 667Mhz memory speed is good enough (faster notebooks go up to 1066Mhz).  This system runs Vista which is more memory hungry than the Windows XP or Linux found on most Netbooks so 2GB, while enough, doesn't go as far as you might think.   Still, as long as your aren't planning on doing any really serious gaming 2GB will handle the typical office application with no troubles.
HDD: The 250GB HDD has plenty of storage given that most users don't use more than 50GB.  Serious gamers and video encoders will need a lot more space than this.
DISPLAY: The 11.6" 1366x768 screen looks good and is a lot more useable than the 8-10" screens found on most Netbooks.  The resolution is much better than what you will find on most Netbooks and it is reasonably bright (200 nits vs 300+ nits on higher end laptop).  I passed on this model because the viewing angle is limited (the manufacturer list the viewing angles as 60vert/90horiz compared to 120v/140h on a high end display) and my sons like to sit with me and watch YouTube videos.  The limited viewing angles might be a selling point for somebody traveling who would prefer not to share what's on their screen with others.  So while Acer clearly saved some money here it's still a good display: unless you need a really high quality LCD I think most people will be pretty happy with this screen (again it's far better than what you'll find in most Netbooks).   For those few who care it's made by AU Optronics and I think it's model B116XW01.
GRAPHICS: The Intel Mobile GMA X4500HD graphics won't impress any gamers but if you're running business applications it will do just fine.  Update: they loaded Autocad on this thing at work and it wasn't pretty.  It might have been a driver issue but the render times were terrible.  It's not really a surprise but don't buy this to run your  CAD software.  Of course for most users this won't be an issue.
AUDIO: notebooks are not known for great speaker sound and this notebook doesn't break from that trend.  Again it's better than most Netbooks but not by a lot.  Update: With headphones on I found the sound to be fine.
DRIVES:  Like most Netbooks and Ultra-portables this has no CD or DVD drive.  I recommend buying an external CD Drive.  The software industry may start to switch over to USB drives soon (Windows 7 will be sold on USB drives) so this may not be a big deal for much longer.  Today it's a pain to not have a CDROM.
BATTERY: The 6 cell battery is perfect for this notebook (thanks to the low power components).  This notebook is probably too small for an 8 cell to fit cleanly but the 4 cell found in most Netbooks just isn't adequate, even for an Atom CPU.  This 6 cell battery will provide about 3-5 hours of real use though with aggressive power saving modes you can get over six hours.  Update: we have two of these in our hardware lab and it was just pointed it out to me that one (which came pre-release) had a higher capacity battery than the release version (5600mAH vs. 4400mAH).  I've adjusted my battery life numbers down to reflect the release version.  Interestingly the non-US version of this laptop has the higher capacity battery.  I can only assume Acer was trying to bring the price down to compete in the tight US netbook market.
WEIGHT:  Coming in a 3.1 lbs this is tiny bit heavier than the typical Netbook but not by much (Netbooks will range from 2-3lbs).  Most regular notebooks are 6-8 lbs.
WIRELESS: The usual Intel 5100 A/G/N supports the most common standards ("A" and "G") along with the new "N" standard.  You should have no trouble connecting to wireless networks.  This is pretty standard though a few laptops will support 3G out of the box.
In short: while this notebook isn't perfect it is well built and unlike most Netbooks, actually has a decent CPU.  It's small and light but big enough that you can actually use it.  If you've got 1K-2K to spend you can get a better Ultra-Portable notebook (I'm partial to Sony's and Apple's offerings in that segment) but in this price range there isn't much competition.  
Oh I should note that while this model is dark blue, Acer makes this in two other colors you can buy:
Acer Aspire AS1410-8913 11.6-Inch Ruby Red
Acer Aspire AS1410-8804 11.6-Inch Black
Also if you're outside the US this might be sold as the "Acer Timeline 1810T" locally and may have slightly different specs (such as a better battery).