ID: B002OEBTC8-R1NVUNHWMOP6DW-AD15N0G7ZZIFF
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-K-x-2-7-inch-18-55mm-Black
ReviewerID: AD15N0G7ZZIFF
ReviewerName: Paul Han "allkpop"
Date: March 19, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best Bang for the Buck
Content:
I come from the world of point & shoot, but I recently had a European trip and needed a new upgrade. I looked into entry level DSLR's and came across this particular camera. I did my due diligence looking at offerings from Canon and Nikon but to me this camera offered the most appealing features at the lowest cost. I particularly liked the low noise at high ISO's.
When I first received the camera I put in 4 powermax AA batteries but the camera wouldn't turn on (it also comes with 4 energizer lithium batteries), luckily I purchased a few sets of Sanyo eneloop batteries and it turned on after I put those in. After this, I immediately upgraded the firmware to 1.01 which was a very simple process. However this firmware didn't fix the issues with the powermax batteries, but I don't really mind that. Since I'm a newbie to DSLR, I used the built in automatic picture mode and I had decent results. I did some research and looked up the terminology (shutter, aperture, ev, iso, etc.) and started using manual mode. After hundred's of shots and trial & error I started getting the hang of it and started taking awesome photos. I'm very happy with the image quality of this camera, you can see some of my shots in the amazon product gallery. However, even with image stabilization on it seems to be very sensitive to movement. Slight movement on my part and I get some blur, so be careful with that. I've only slightly used the special features such as HDR, color removal, video (720p at 24fps) etc. but from the limited use they seem to be pretty cool features.
This camera seems to be very picky when it comes to batteries (evidenced by it's refusal to turn on with my powermax batteries) but it works great with the Sanyo eneloops. With liveview on I could take only around 200 photos before I got a battery warning. Without liveview and just using the viewfinder I took more than 2000 shots and the camera's battery meter would just be drained halfway. Some don't really like the AA batteries but I love it, very easy to find and use.
The 18-55mm kit lens included is sufficient but I found myself at times wanting a bigger lens... For instance, the time I was at the top of the Eiffel Tower I wanted to zoom in to get a nice close up shot of Notre Dame Cathedral, but unfortunately the kit lens couldn't zoom in far enough to get a decent shot.
Overall, I really love this camera. It's one of the best purchases I made, very satisfied customer. I would recommend this to both beginners and professionals, a great camera at a great price.