ID: B002MZYZHU-RDM36G4BBZ0FC-A3284KYDZ00BZA
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Breville-BKC700XL-Single-Serve-Coffeemaker-Iced-Beverage
ReviewerID: A3284KYDZ00BZA
ReviewerName: Erich Maria Remarque
Date: December 2, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: Very good, but Tassimo tastes better.
Content:
UPDATE (12/8/09): If you didn't receive the K-Cup variety pack in the box, make sure you send an email to Breville customer support. They will ship you the sample pack for free.
As far as Keurig brewers go, the 700XL is definitely top of the line. Unfortunately, the K-cup variety pack mentioned in the description was not included (bad batch maybe?). 
In any case, the main intention of this review is to compare the Breville with the Bosch Tassimo TAS65 brewer.
 
First of all, the Bosch Tassimo produces a relatively (keyword!) better tasting cup of coffee. Breville Keurig does come pretty close however, and I do like it. But the Tassimo T-Disc system is just better. You can brew some amazingly tasty cappuccinos, lattes, and espressos. T-Discs however are very expensive, and you cannot use your own coffee. 
The Keurig system, however, has one HUGE advantage over Tassimo: yep, it allows you to brew your own coffee. That alone is reason enough to choose the Keurig over Tassimo. This particular model includes a "My K-Cup" container in the box (the item that gives you the ability to use your own coffee). And as an added convenience it's stored inside a compartment at the top of the brewer for quick access.
I especially like the iced beverage mode (using it with freshly grinded Community Coffee). It basically drips only a small but concentrated amount of coffee, and you add ice, milk, and sugar. Mix it all together and drink it using a straw. I received this machine last week, and have used it to make over 20 iced coffees since then!  I absolutely love them.
So if you are deciding whether to go with Tassimo or Keurig, it basically boils down to this: if money is no object and you are willing to pay over a dollar for a single cup of coffee, then go with Tassimo as it tastes better. If you would like to use your own coffee, while coming close in taste to Tassimo (though without the ability to brew true espressos), then go with Keurig.