ID: B002P3KSKW-R1YQMO71YZKS8Z-A39422NMVAFTMB
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Timeline-AS4810TZ-4508-14-Inch-Aluminum
ReviewerID: A39422NMVAFTMB
ReviewerName: MEATHEAD "Kev"
Date: December 20, 2009
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 4.0
Title: Acer got it mostly right with this one
Content:
A few months ago my Dell Inspiron 8500 with windows XPdied, so I was in the market for a new machine. I was interested in getting one with a screen size of 12" to 13", which would make it easier to get around with. Due to reading what people had to say about vista, I decided to wait on windows 7. At first I was attracted to the hp probook 4310s, but a reviewer said that it was bulky. I came across the acer brand because I saw an extensa at a friend's house, and I really like the keyboard. 
Looks:
It has a very beautiful understated look, almost businesslike. Flat! Very thin, easy to carry around. Is not glossy, so no ugly fingerprints all over the new laptop. 
Sound:
Some reviewers are not impressed with the sound, I think it's ok, and besides, I use headphones.
Screen:
Nice, bright screen, dark colours do look washed out, but really, a beautiful screen. If you are not a graphic artist, this should not bother you. 
As it turns out, I am really liking the 14" size screen, even after I wanted a smaller one, it seems ideal to me. The inspiron had a 15" screen, definitely too big to travel around with. When I look at 12" screens now, they seem too small, 13" still seem ok to me, but..... The 14" screen machine comes with dvd drive attached.
DVD drive:
Works well, feels really fragile! Care is definitely needed when handling this. I like the eject button position. Very sensible
Keyboard:
Really nice touch to it, glossy though, fingerprints do show up, but really, it's no where near as bad as I have seen on computers with glossy cases. If Acer had thrown in a wipe cloth with the computer, that would have been a nice touch, but really, a computer this sweet for $650.00? I'll get my own cloth!
Noticed that the left shift key is slightly skewed. Will check it out with Acer and see what can be done.
Battery:
Just about as advertised. I get about seven hours, I really wanted eight!!! (Side note: the Dell gave about 1 ½ hours).
Windows 7:
Wow!
I was actually mulling getting a mac, but I am glad I waited for windows 7. In fact, it's so good, that I find myself using Microsoft products as a default instead of using a comparable third party application (and that's really different for me).
Multi Touch:
Even though the dell had a trackpad and a point stick, I would still use a mouse.. Now, no more!
Running Temperature:
So cool to the touch that if I were to put the machine in hibernation right now, you could hardly tell that I was using it for hours.
Conclusion:
I really like this machine. It has a very sensible look to it, and a very sensible feel. Even the keyboard (which is glossy) is really nice, and if someone types a lot, the keys that get the most use get glossy anyhow. This probably means that the keyboard might look the same after a long time, instead of giving that "worn out" look. Acer has definitely got a winner here in my book.