ID: B002NEGTU6-R3OZ28P9DSB93F-A2U07IGR69TON0
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-EOS-7D-28-135mm-Standard
ReviewerID: A2U07IGR69TON0
ReviewerName: Kirk Lawler "KL"
Date: November 13, 2009
Helpful: 109 of 132
Rating: 3.0
Title: The 7D a mixed bag
Content:
This camera looks great on paper, but....      
     The good news: the 7D packs lots of pro features you'll love, like a big and bright viewfinder and LCD screen, weather seals, a dampened mirror box so that the noise from the slap doesn't startle wildlife, automatic sensor cleaning on startup and shut down, micro adjustment for optimizing the performance of lenses, minimal shutter lag and fast AF.  I bought my 7D with the incomparable Canon 70-200mm F/4L IS and the combined responsiveness is amazing.
     The bad news: my sample constantly over exposes and blows highlights when used outdoors in bright light, the auto white balance is the least reliable of any digital camera that I have ever used (sometimes the color rendition is downright odd#, and images above ISO 800 are dotted with little white speckles that standard noise reduction software settings don't eliminate.  My 7D delivers such inconsistent image quality that shooting in the RAW file format is essential.  To top it off, the 18MP sensor creates large, memory intensive files, but delivers only slightly more visible resolution than the 12MP sensors of my Nikon D90 & D700.  If you are camera shopping because you want to boost detail and overall IQ beyond the output of your Canon T1i or Nikon D90, you might get better results by spending $1700 on a high-grade lens instead of this camera.  
     There are also some design glitches that may or may not matter to you: mirror-lockup is buried in a custom menu folder, the IR remote shutter release can only be used with a delay which makes it useless for wildlife and portraiture, the tiny buttons around the shutter release button are difficult to use when you are in a hurry or are wearing gloves, the toggle control is temperamental and will frequently dump you into the wrong menu folder, and the focus controls are needlessly complicated.  A camera that is being marketed for shooting sports should make it easy to change settings and operate quickly, buy I frequently find that I have to stop and fiddle with both hands in order to make a simple adjustment.  Furthermore, it is not possible to set a ceiling when using auto ISO, and Highlight Tone Priority helps to reduce blown highlights but changes the base ISO from 100 to 200, so noise also increases. 
     In order to produce usable results in direct sun, I have settled on -2/3rds EV as a standard setting with Highlight Tone Priority enabled and contrast at the default (zero) point.  Whenever possible I stop down and always use a super multi-coated polarizer on the lens.  I also turned off the automatic LCD brightness feature, which made it impossible to correctly judge exposures by checking images in playback.  
     Editing outdoor shots taken with the 7D almost always involves a levels adjustment to reclaim highlight detail: Adobe Elements and Photoshop do a much better job of this than the supplied Canon Digital Photo Professional software.  BTW, the default Adobe settings produce brighter, more saturated colors than Canon's software (see page 14 of the 7D write up at [...] for a demonstration of the differences).  Whether or not this is preferable is a matter of taste, but it is something to watch out for if you are switching from Adobe Camera RAW to DPP.  Also, I had consistently poor quality output from DPP RAW conversion: fine detail was obliterated and images were overlaid with a sprinkling of pixel-size artifacts.  Open the same file in Adobe Camera RAW and you will see all of the detail and micro contrast that the 18MP sensor can deliver.
     Is the 7D worth the price tag and considerable heft?  Only if you need the rich feature set, shooting speed and durable build, and want to be able to use outstanding Canon lenses like the 70-200mm f/4L IS on a small sensor, cropped view dSLR.  Canon should be able to improve the 7D's IQ with firmware updates.  Until then, the bottom line is this: you can produce great images with this camera, but expect to do a lot of extra exposure bracketing and post processing.