ID: B002PHM0KE-R153KOKTMRI91X-A221I9R7I92ORO
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VGN-NW240F-15-5-Inch-Windows-Premium
ReviewerID: A221I9R7I92ORO
ReviewerName: IRG
Date: December 3, 2009
Helpful: 26 of 29
Rating: 4.0
Title: One of the best out there at a reasonable price
Content:
A little bit of background before I sing the praises of my new laptop!
My 4-and-a-half-year old Toshiba XP laptop "died" last week, despite one or two "revivals." So the hunt for a new laptop was on. (I'm still trying to revive it, because it was working fine until it started into an endless cycle of safe mode and never opened. Need to find an XP system disc. Never had because software comes loaded.)
At a minimum, I wanted at least 3 USB ports, one HDMI and the "usual suspects" (4GB Ram, hard drive not all that important as I no longer want to keep ANYTHING on a system drive!) and card readers, CD/DVD drive (but that was optional if the unit was lite enough to use as netbook).
As someone who has had several Toshiba laptops that performed well and which I liked for their great screens and keyboards--and sound, I started with those models. I found one with generally strong reviews (except for a critical area), the 135-1310 (1309 retail version at best buy). I wanted to love it. It was heavy with features but lite in weight and size, enough so that one could use it as netbook.
But I had read the reviews and folks complained about the touchpad and the buttons. So, I headed to Best Buy for some on-site testing. Yea. All those folks? They were correct. I could not picture myself using it without going mad and getting carpal tunnel. (Yes you can use an external mouse but I don't want to buy something that doesn't work "as is"). Plus the thing was in this icky, shiny (glared in my eyes!), horrible material and style. (Young kids looking at it hated it, too!)
I had set a price point of around $599, slightly higher if it had bluetooth (but then you can always add for like $40 bucks via USB). 
Checked gateway, HP and compaq laptops. Checked the Asus, althought they did not have the U30 models with long battery life. But from the models on floor, I wasn't in love with design or keyboards. So many options, but Too this, not enough that, etc. Or "Love it but WHOA, the price!) (Think City Girl and the dozens of computers). Finally, saw a Sony--this model VGN-NW240 (in the "brown" color). 
Now, I've always lusted after them but deemed them too pricey for the features. However, after despairing of the other models, I tried the lowest priced one ($649--which was the lowest price anywhere, and $50 more than I was budgeting). I know, because you can go online at Best Buy and check prices elsewhere. Smart move best buy. Cause you ended up with a buyer and I almost ALWAYS order from Amazon or [...])
FYI: For $50 more, at $699 on Dec 2, you got it in the really great looking brushed aluminum (or whatever) silver, with a DVD that played Blue-Ray discs. Didn't need that and was not gonna spend $50 just to "look pretty" (Oh, it is sexy! Not as slim as those gorgeous Macs, but close enough.)
THe "Chiclet" keyboard rocked (I do a LOT of typing and though I have several external keyboards, I want a laptop that I can use on the fly "as is") and since it had the specs I wanted (including a great feature that has one-touch net access without booting up--Love it), and the strong, clean design (no more glaring, cheap, shiny black and metal!) paired with its features and price made it my new "love."
It's only been two days, but some initial comments.
* Sound: Not crazy about the sound quality. But I have external speakers and when I travel, I always have my own earbuds. So no real problem there.
* Loving Windows 7 so far, but still (despite a driver download) cannot get my Brother laser printer to work. Haven't loaded all my old software yet, but so far, for major stuff, no problems. 
* I will never be a fan of having all the connections on the sides of a computer. Looks ugly (I have lots of stuff) but until/if I buy a docking unit, it's staying that way.
* HDMI and VGA connections. I don't even know if you can run two connections (VGA to an external monitor; HDMI to my LCD TV) simultaneously, BUT you don't have the option with this unit because you cannot physically plug in both at the same time. The VGA plug would overlap the HDMI. DOn't know if this is accidental or a true design flaw.
I just care that the HDMI runs (have to try it this weekend) as we watch a lot of stuff via online and having it stream to the TV...hey, it's one reason we bought this more expensive laptop. You can get almost all the same features, excluding HDMI, for about $150 less on other laptops.
I'm never gonna love the "brown" color, but it will really NOT show dirt or fingerprints. And the textured surface is great. (I'm kinda glad it isn't the sleeker finish as it might attract too much attention. THe kind you don't want.)
Can't speak to battery life yet, but I can say that although I've had a lot of experience with laptops, I had to spend several minutes to get the battery installed. Do this carefully folks, or you could damage it by forcing it. It's not as simple, easy to slip in as all my other laptops.
FYI: Although I had not owned a Sony, in checking the reliability rates, Sony was third (after Asus and Toshiba) in terms of % of repairs over three years.
Can't speak to their customer service quality as I haven't needed just yet. The setup was simple.
A CON to me:
* The guide is online only. No print version and really only a one-page basic "connection" bit. 
And no system disks of any kind. 
I'm old-fashioned. Give me some "hard" stuff straight up. 
So far, great movie (via net) and CD on the screen. Need to test Netflix Instant Viewing next.
Overall, this is great value for the money with a strong brand.
And anyone who really types a lot, this IS the keyboard for you. Seriously.