ID: B002HO7FBO-R2REEKKXMVO1IB-ASWOF6PRBN5V0
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Keurig-Single-Serving-Bundle-B77
ReviewerID: ASWOF6PRBN5V0
ReviewerName: RC NY
Date: January 10, 2010
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 3.0
Title: Great, when it works
Content:
I purchased this system from Costco for Christmas.  On New Years day it stopped working. I unplugged the unit and after a couple of hours, it started working again.  After about 5 more days, it did the same thing. Displaying "Not Ready" and kept shutting down. I emailed Keurig's customer service dept. but did not get a reply. I called their 866 number and waited on hold for about half an hour only to be told that they would not allow me to wait on hold any longer, so I had to wait 3 days for them to call me back.  The technician told me to use a paper clip and make sure the top and bottom spouts were clear and we ran through several hot water cycles on different cup settings.  
I don't know if this 'fixed' the problem because at that point it had been working again. The tech. said that the hot cocoa cups could clog the spouts (although I do run a hot water cycle after each hot cocoa cup is 'brewed'). She also said there may be a problem with the separate filter that allows me to use my own coffee as opposed to their K-Cups.  After her call, I stopped using the hot cocoa and the separate filter and so far have not had any problems.  Hopefully it was a clogged spout and not a faulty pump or something like that.
When the machine works, it's wonderful. Quick and easy and extremely convenient. Every family member can brew what ever kind of coffee they want and there's no wasted coffee pots.  There's enough of a variety of K-Cups for my family. We are very happy with it and hope it doesn't keep breaking down. If you remove the bottom tray, a travel mug fits easily under the drip spout.  The blue light looks nice in a dark kitchen too :)  The on / off timer is convenient and saves some energy when the unit is not in use for hours at a time.  Even from the off position, it doesn't take very long for the machine to be in "Ready" mode.
Overall, I am happy with the machine. If it didn't break down, I'd have given it 5 stars.  
I tried to leave an honest review (like this one) on Keurig's site, but for some reason, they have not published it.  They only seem to post positive reviews on their site.