ID: B002LEVGMO-R14SSVJX4PAF3B-AHS57L7PRH9K2
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Aspire-AS1410-8804-11-6-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: AHS57L7PRH9K2
ReviewerName: FoReigNeR
Date: October 29, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: netbook as a gaming rig?...sure why not
Content:
I'm very satisfied with my purchase of the Acer 1410.  It already comes with 2GB of RAM which is fine for most standard applications but I did add the Crucial 2GB 667 Mhz CT25664AC667 DDR2 200-Pin SODIMM Laptop Memory for good measure.
My main use for the Acer is for portable internet but I did add several games on there like Warcraft III Battle Chest, StarCraft Battle Chest, and Halo: Combat Evolved.  The reason I chose these classic games is because of their relatively low system requirements and they require no game disc to play once installed which is great because there is no disc drive in the Acer. I can play all 3 games with maxed out settings for single player but for online multiplayer, you will need to reduce the settings to at least medium.  This is with the original 2GB of RAM and not with the added 2GB. Of course the graphics chip has its limits but I was suprised as to how smoothly it ran. Plus it stays cool to the touch despite the rigors I put it through. 
You may want to get the ASUS USB 2.0 8x DVD Writer External Optical Drive SDRW-08D1S-U (Black) to install games or other apps from a disc. It's very sexy and they works great together. 
Pairing with my T-mobile Blackberry Curve for internet access was a breeze and works great albeit at dial-up speeds. 
I ordered Windows 7 through the Acer website for the free upgrade from Vista Home Premium which comes with the Acer. Fantastic! 
Sound quality is not the greatest but I didn't really expect a whole lot from it to begin with. I recommend getting the Audio Advantage Micro USB Sound Card. Just plug in your stereo headphones or external speakers to it and your sound will be like night and day. Just keep in mind that this device does not affect the internal speakers but only speakers or headphones that plug into the jack itself. Well worth the money. 
Well there you have it folks. A fairly simple setup that meets all my netbook needs. I did add Firefox and iTunes and uninstalled all the trial apps that came pre-installed. [...]. Other than that, I try to keep my desktop clutter-free. Runs great! I am one happy customer.