ID: B002WOR4OW-R1ROZX00JGXJK3-A2A0FBLKJN4ZY5
Category: Laptops
Product: G72Gx-A1-Republic-Gamers-17-Inch-Gaming
ReviewerID: A2A0FBLKJN4ZY5
ReviewerName: W. freeman
Date: February 7, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Spectacular, this is for the Best Buy Duo 2 core version
Content:
Note my review is for the newer windows 7 based version of the G72 which is on clearance now and ready to ship out for good from best buy. Also is just the duo core not the quad. If your a hard core gamer of any type you'd better pick this up while it lasts for just 999$ you won't find a better deal anywhere with these specs. Heres a list of pros and cons rather than getting into the total details.
Ptos
Great size, seems bulky but isnt nearly as heavy as it looks, feels comfortable on your lap.
Great  1600x900 screen hey so its 180 pixels short of 1080p, you won't even know the difference
Runs all games on max settings, i have yet to see a game that won't, even Crysis(even though the frame rates aren't through the roof, its very very playable.)
Nice lit up keyboard thats adjustable
The Nvidia GTX 260 is a beast for this price
6 gigs of RAM
500 gig HD, would have prefered 750 or so, but can't complain
Runs cool, i don't know where people get that it overheats,never had an issue, and played games for a few hours at a time. Nothing
Speakers sound nice, just loud enough and strong enough to satisfy.
Lots of tweeks and adjustments for overclocking etc.
I actually like the little magnetic doors on each side hiding the USBs
Battery life is decent
Cons
Finger print magnet of course!
Only a 5400 RPM HD, which really doesnt even matter, i transfered files from an external hd to a sony vaio with a 7200rom HD, and it took around 45 min, this one only took 30 minutes, odd i know.
Mouse pad it pretty much invisible except for little grooves that you can feel with the tips of your finger
The zooming slide on the mouse pad can be annoying sometimes, working when you don't mean for it to.
Web cam is decent
Battery life is definitely sub par but not as bad as you'd think, right now on lowest screen red, i have an hour and a half left.
I had one before that gave me the blue screen of death out of sleep mode, but read that it was an updating the Nvidia drivers issue, so just use your windows update to ugrade it, then you won't have any issues at all.
ASUS has been making motherboards, graphics cards, and other computer components for years, stands to reason its a very high quality product, built and hardware. Also when you have a high tech machine even in this large casing your still gonna run into issues. Considering there about 3 times the power of the PS3(except the processor) and much more than the 360 its a wonder it functions as well as it does. So yes its a beast. So no matter what kind of gamer you are newer hard core or eve casual get it and you'll love it. Takes a while to get use to the size but its worth every dime and when you set it on your life its quite comfy, so don't worry about the weight. Also its a beautiful machine, just keep a rag handy. Other than that i would just like to add that there are some other Alienware computers out there with not even half the specs of this thing, for around 1500 dollars or more, which is totally ludicrous, also the new sony vaio with the I7 processor and the Nvidia 330M graphics, can't even come close to gaming like this bad boy. My friend picked it up just because its full 1080p screeen and blu ray, and tried gaming on it, and boy what a joke, barely even medium setting on a game like Bioshock. He saw mine said wow i'm taking this back and getting yours. So just goes to show, a lot of times you pay for the name and get a much less powerful gaming machine. If thats what you want just pay for it, or if not still pay for it just in case you decide to game, don't settle for less when you can have mroe for a much cheaper price.