ID: B0029U151M-R2YVR3BAST49MB-A2A0FBLKJN4ZY5
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Aspire-4810TZ-4011-Timeline-14-0-Inch
ReviewerID: A2A0FBLKJN4ZY5
ReviewerName: W. freeman
Date: July 22, 2009
Helpful: 8 of 24
Rating: 2.0
Title: Nice try, but vista can't be run on these computers.
Content:
I've worked on computers for about 4 years now, mostly desktops, and i've seen about all you can see. Well when vista was released i had realized i had really seen nothing! Single core processing was becoming a thing of the past and computers all over the world were crashing and burning because they did not have the power to run vista. Well now, Acer, of all companies(which i do like) has went back to the old school route just utilize power to give you less power consumption for up to 8 hours of battery life by using a low end processor. Well at what cost. Mostly speed, overall stability and just a sense that this product was rushed out to the masses just so they could use it as a guenie pig. Well first of it IS one of the thinnest notebooks you can find next to Macbooks, which the Acer Timeline is about 100 times behind, so you really shouldnt compare them. Also if you ever read vista you'll realize that on the back the minimum system for basic is a 1.5 processor, and 1.6 for premium, and at least a 2.0 processor for Ultimate which people rarely have. Also just because you have 3 or 4 gigs of RAM doesnt increase performance if your processor isnt up to par. Its like having a mustang GT with a 1.5 liter 85 horsepower 1985 volks wagon engine inside of it, no way. So the CPU 100% problem and the crashing issues are because these systems barely meet the minimum requirements to even RUN vista, nothing more nothing less. Also if you read anything about Windows Vista, you'll see that it does not recommend using the operating system using single core processors, and it hasnt for about 2 years. So what would make the Timeline a great looking, working and selling computer? Yep you guessed it good ole Windows XP. So if you have an extra 80 bucks, throw in a 250 or 320gig hard drive and get an authentic copy of XP off tigerdirect, or download one, and your off and flying. Unless your tech savy and want to go into the BIOS and reconfigure or flash the bios to get it to recognize Windows XP, which is NOT an easy task, so i recomment just replacing it with a clean format. XP Drivers for ALL acers can be found on there website, which is why i still love acer and hate giving it a poor review, but after trying this one and the 15.6 with the same issues i just can NOT recommend this, stock, like it is. So good product, with specs that can't keep up with the operating system, plain and simple. Btw the 3 or 4 gigs of RAM just gives you more multitasking ability, which in this case is pointless. See ya. Hope this helps.