ID: B002Q8HK7K-R30X06TVI5VT5V-A28OPKPW25782G
Category: Laptops
Product: UL80Vt-A1-14-Inch-Light-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A28OPKPW25782G
ReviewerName: James
Date: November 4, 2009
Helpful: 53 of 63
Rating: 3.0
Title: Great laptop, ok display
Content:
This is also my first review of a product.  I was really looking forward to this laptop and when I received it and turned it on I was pretty disappointed.  The display on this laptop is very poor.  The contrast ratio is low, so everything looks a little washed out.  Its not terrible and would be tolerable but the horizontal viewing angle is horrible!  You have to get the angle perfect to make the display look acceptable.  If you move it slightly towards or away from you, it looks discolored and is pretty much unusable.  I have owned several laptops over the last couple years from a 13 dell xps to 18.4 inch hp hdx and I have never had a problem with or complained about a display before.  I've never even considered examining a display because I'm not that picky, but that was the first thing (and only thing really) that stood out through all of my time using the laptop.  The only reason I'm writing this review is to caution people about the display.  If it is not that important to you than this is a great laptop.  It's speedy, fairly well made, great battery life, relatively thin and light, and windows 7 rocks.  If the display was better it would get 5 stars.  If I had the choice to return this laptop for a full refund I would, only because of the display.  
NOTE: I also have asus eee pc 105ha and it has a much better display than this laptop for contrast and viewing angles. 
**UPDATE**  I feel the need to clarify this because I have received a few comments with tips or information about this display.  I have owned and used many laptops of all brands, price ranges, manufacturers etc... This is a BAD display, it's not just my subjective opinion.  Here is a link with actual data on the subject= [...] 
I'm not saying this laptop is bad, I gave it three stars, but Asus absolutely skimped on the display!