ID: B002R5ARKY-RL2PMEVPAJ1V4-A1MJFZ975LIEHE
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV6-1354US-15-6-Inch-Black-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1MJFZ975LIEHE
ReviewerName: THE REAL REVIEW "Only 100% truthful Reviews"
Date: November 16, 2009
Helpful: 9 of 29
Rating: 5.0
Title: UPDATE 12-25-09/AWESOME
Content:
People can feel free to look at my review on the ASUS which arrived with a dead optical drive and many other issues.
Thankfully, AMZN does a wonderful job of taking care of their customers.
After the ASUS Debacle, AMZN next day shipped me the HP DV6 1354us. Was quite impressed from opening the box all the way to using the comp.
First impressions were it was a very good looking and 'solid' unit.Everything about it felt sturdy and top notch. Compared to the ASUS, the ASUS felt like a cheap lightweight toy when compared to the HP. I dont mean necessarily weight.....The ASUS is a bit lighter..the HP though is certainly very light as well..not heavy or bulky...in fact, I was quite surprised at the slim and sleek design, sturdy build factor and etc...what I mean in comparring to the asus was not so much the 'weight' but the 'feel of the build quality'. The asus simply 'felt cheaply made'. Sort of the difference in jumping in a cheap strater car with cheap plastic everything and then getting in a BMW where everything is sturdy and solid.
Next, THe HP set up was a breeze...the screen was absolutely amazing....There is no comparrison between the screen on the ASUS versus the HP. Looking at the HP was STUNNING...I was NOT impressed with the screen on the asus...The ASUS was weird...you had to be at a perfect angle to see screen properly...plus the quality of the pic simply was not there when compared with the HP. Sort of like comparing a new hd TV to an old plain jane tv..I know the ASUS claims to have HD screen, and I'm sure it is, but there was no comparrisson with the HP...The ASUS was very below average..the HP was stunning....
HP booted fast.....very easy to customize everything, especially power saving options...I set up several power saving profiles to make it easy to just click on one and change it depending on my needs.....In the medium range, I was easily getting 4 hours......Even better is at the utmost lowest power saving options, the screen still looks awesome...You would not even know it was in power saving mode if you didnt change it to normal and then see the screen at that level...in the lowest setting the screen still was awesome.....
The laptop is super quiet and to my surprise, it runs very cool....barely even gets warm, let alone hot (knock on wood)...Power cord is beefy and long which I love..others complained about the long cord. I love it as it allows you to plug it in anywhere and not be limited as to how far you can move..it is also good in that depending on where I am using it, I know I wont have to unplug other devices to plug in the laptop..cord is so long, it will easily reach outlets further away....
Computer is super fast........absolutely love it....
Now the interesting part which I will post to be fair....The reason below is exactly why I love AMZN. After I got the defective asus, I got the HP...As you can see by my review, I was quite happy and very impressed. However, after doing ALOT and even after burning my recovery disks, customizing it and etc....I then went to check out the REMOTE CONTROL. The computer has a great slot on the side where you can store the remote. I stick mine in and long story short.....it went in and never came back out..stuck in the computer.....Wow, talk about disappointed..all that time and then the remote gets stuck in the comp..Should have checked that first &lt;lol>...Other then that, the computer was awesome...but obviously I wasnt going to keep it with the remore jammed and stuck inside the comp..so amzn next day aired me another one....This time the first thing I did was take the remote and stick it in..went in and out perfectly.....
So, I proceeded....Just as impressed with this one as the first one....I did notice the keyboard on the left side felt sort of 'loose'...it would rattle when typing on the left side. This got worse over several days which led me to believe there was likely a loose screw that was getting looser. Once again, amzn saved the day....shipped me another one next day.....I loved the 2nd one as much as I loved the 1st one, but cant keep a NEW comp with the keyboard like that....so on the the third one they sent....No problems or issues at all....The good thing about all of this is although I got 2 HP's with 'issues', the issues had no effect on the operation of the comp so I got to see 3 hp units work and each one was awesome....Now that I have my 3rd one I am happy to say that it is working awesome, just like the first 2, without the remote issue or the keyboard issue...
Once again, amzn was awesome in getting this resolved. Disappointing that my first 2 hps had issues that forced me to send it back, but great job by amzn and again, at least I got to see 3 of the same model HP's work up close and personal and all 3 were awesome, aside for the problems noted. 
People may ask why I got an asus with 'issues' and then 2 hp with 'issues' only to get a 3rd hp and not even try the asus again....the fact is, I was not impressed with the ASUS....even if it had no problems, I was not impressed with anything about it....Felt cheaply made...looked cheaply made (neighbors and friends even commented that the asus 'looked cheap'...screen was OK but awful when compared with others..there simply was nothing I liked about the ASUS....so no need to try another one.The HP on the other had was aweseome. very impressed. Loved everything about it...so, that is why I stuck with HP and yes, it was a shame it took me 3 tries on HP, but I am thrilled with the computer. I was thrilled with the first 2 except for those problems which gave me no choice but to send it back and get another one....Had I purchased these elsewhere, it would have been a nightmare...AMZN saved the day...I even took the 2nd unit up to best buy to let the geek squad take a look at the keyboard..they had no way of knowing whether I bought it there or not..their opinion was it was 'cosmetic' ( the loose keyboard) and they said I had 2 options....give it to them and they will send it in to HP for repaair..I said "BUT IT IS BRAND NEW"....the guy then said "oh, ok, well then you can just return it minus 15% restocking fee and get a new one"...LOL...Man, I would have been really PO'd had I bought it at best buy and then had them tell me I had to lose 15% because their NEW computer was defective out of the box....
Anyways, back to amzn it went who sent me out my 3rd one next day...and I am proud to report the unit worked as good as the first 2, leaving me every impressed ( I am not very high on HP, BTW) again, and obviously no issues with the remote, keyboard or anything else.....
Absolutely awesome computer......I dont even see how people compare the ASUS I originally got with this HP...It is akin to comparing a Kia Rio with a Porsche...both had similar specs..the HP was considerably cheaper so in a way, I feel like I just bought a porsche for less then a Kia Rio...and who couldnt be happy feeling like that.....
Now, I just need to hope that the comp lasts a long time...but like any electronic, the best may die in a week and the worst may last forever.....You roll the dice and see how they come up.....Highly rec this model laptop...and highly rec getting it from amzn, god forbid there are issues.....
MERRY X-MAS!!!!
===============================================================
I will update this review at a later time.
My ASUS was DOA and it was a rather bad experience.....AMZN saved the day.
Feel free to read my review on my ASUS that is now dead and buried and sent back after 15 hours of ownership and that 15 hours was a NIGHTMARE!