ID: B002TFFGIK-R1WDV4HWAHJMOG-A2DBTRSIAKSM88
Category: Laptops
Product: Lenovo-G550-15-6-Inch-Laptop-Black
ReviewerID: A2DBTRSIAKSM88
ReviewerName: K. J. Brett
Date: January 19, 2010
Helpful: 22 of 24
Rating: 4.0
Title: What can you expect for $500.
Content:
I'm a presentation technology specialist and I use laptops everyday for presentations and normally I would never buy a computer that costs less than $1200. Anything less than that and you're asking for performance problems on all fronts; processor, RAM, graphics and hard drive.
First things first, this computer only cost $549 dollars or less.
This computer is not a workhorse by any means and is ugly as only a mother could love.
That being said, this is what can you expect.
Flimsy plastic body construction? Check.
The plastic looks and feels as cheap as what you paid for. Think of a low end DVD player that you can pick up at Walmart for $30 dollars. This computer does flex on the bottom but as long as you don't handle it like the "Samsonite Gorilla" you'll be fine. It does have a raised texture pattern on the surface to help you grip it better. The screen does not have a latch to secure it but that is not detrimental to me. One reviewer commented that the DVD drive popped open a couple of times because of the flexing of the case and I would refute that claim and suggest that it happens when a thumb or finger presses the eject button as has happened to me.
Intel shared video performance? Check. Poor lcd viewing angles? Check.
The Intel chipset can use as much as a Gb of RAM to help with graphics.  Mine is currently using 57Mb.  This screen is great for direct viewing only. As for off viewing angles, I often laugh when people complain about this. How often do you view your work on a laptop from any position other than directly in front of the screen. I have been using it to watch DVD and Streaming movies on Netflix with no performance problems.  I also use Corel Draw 13 and Corel Painter 10 and it runs those programs equally fine. It also runs TrialDirector, a special presentation software, surprisingly well for non-dedicated video graphics. I won't be running Maya or Max or any highend 3-D apps or games on it so there is no expectation to be crushed on that point.
Windows XP Professional loaded? Check. Windows 7 Professional 32 bit on disk? Check.
Netbooks primarily ship with Windows 7 Starter and that version is severely diminished in functionality. I highly recommend setting this computer to dual boot keeping both operating systems intact. You can always reformat later.
Large 15.6 inch screen? Check. Fullsize keyboard with numeric pad? Check.
I bought this as opposed to a netbook because of the screen. My eyesight is pretty bad and I prefer having a larger screen.
The keyboard is fullsize and typing in numbers on the numeric key pad is a plus for me. The only flaw I find on the keyboard is the placement of the Function key. It is located on the outside of the left hand side Control key which is counter-intuitive to the better quality laptops I'm using.
This Lenovo is considered their "value line" series so don't buy this and expect alot and you will most likely be pleased with the performance.