ID: B002B50B1A-R30M2Z2VZOMXYJ-A2IHBR60LB1SMN
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Kenmore-Aqua-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: A2IHBR60LB1SMN
ReviewerName: Mother of Five
Date: March 20, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: I love this Vacuum!
Content:
I paid 170 for this at Sears and bought the 60 dollar warranty.  The suction is great.  It is not loud for a vacuum.  It has a power head, as in electricity powers the brush rolers, not suction, so performance is consistent.  
Someone mentioned the bags being too small for the unit.  It does seem so at first, but actually they puff out into a sort of cubed shape like a popcorn bag, so they actually do fit the compartment.  You have three different bag options which are a hepa bag, fine particle bag and then just regular plain old vacuum bags.  I went with the middle of the road.  But the bag prices are very reasonable.  I think I got 8 bags for 10 bucks.  The hepa type, if I remember were two bags for 15, and the regular bags were like 15 for 10 dollars.  
What I didn't like most upon deciding, since I went to sears and checked them all out, were the cheap feeling plasic compartment doors that hold the accessories.  It feels like it will just break off if you open it, but it doesn't.  
I have four types of flooring, rough hand laid cement, low grade plywood, unfinished pine, and area rugs (the kind from walmart),  It worked great on all these types.  
I also have a woodstove, so my house accumulates dust fast, plus I have a bunch of kids and live in the country and alot gets tracked in from the outside.  This vacuumed up the fine dust generated from the woodstove, cobweb, bits of cement, sheetrock, and fiberglass, dust bunnies, everything... no problem.  I pick up larger debris before vacuuming such as woodchips and toys.  I pretty much just keep in mind the diameter of the hose and if I think it could get lodged in the hose or not.  
Ok, so you get the power head for carpet.  It has about four different height settings, works great.  The onboard tools include a bare floor attachment, works great and has a short row of bristle on both sides of it.  There is an upholstry tool that works great.  I have some fabric covered walls (that old 90's office type) and it vacuumed cobweb and dust-lint off them and they look nice again. And it has a crevice tool.  I used to own a eureka boss and used the dust brush attachment alot.  This did not come with one, but I ordered one for 10 and it should arrive soon.  I like to dust with my vacuum.  I wish it had come with that attachment.  Also, if you order it at the sears store you don't have to pay shipping and they will ship it to your house free.  
I don't have pets, so no idea how it does on dog hair.  I do have a dog that visits occasionally, but it is short haired.  I don't notice any dog hair in my house.  
Also, this vacuum uses the same motor as all the Kenmore canisters.  The only reason I didn't go with the orange colored one, which is priced just below this one is because the metal rod that attaches to the hose and power head doesn't connect and disconnect as easily.  I just thought the other one would be too inconvenient.  
I vacuum alot so the features are important to me, but I'm also very conservative with my money so I only buy what I need and no more.  The more expensive ones are way more attractive, but this one is very lightweight and portable.  I am a very petite person and the nicer vacuums seemed more cumbersome to me.  I had also considered a miele vacuum.  I think this is a way better value for the money.  With the warranty, this is covered indefinately.  For 60 dollars I get a 5 year warranty which I can renew every 5 years.  They service it free every year for free, and if anything fails on it in between, it is still free to have repaired, not including belts bags and filters, naturally.  
Also I had no problem carrying this while using it.  Like when I used it to clean the top shelf of the kitchen cabinets, where the rod isn't convenient because you have to be close and lay the brush flat for scrubbing.  
I havent used this in my vehicle yet, but as a tip, I keep an extension cord on a cord reel I got at walmart for 10 dollars, and I unwind it to my vehicle when I use my little green machine to shampoo the carpets.  That way your cord doesn't get dirty on your machine, just the extention cord which I leave outside.  I hope this info helps!!!!  I recommend this over any other vacuum!!!!