ID: B002P3KMNU-RAIVKFHC07NWD-ADH0XCEQ0TXHL
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30A-A2-Light-13-3-Inch-Silver-Laptop
ReviewerID: ADH0XCEQ0TXHL
ReviewerName: D. Westwood "dave_westwood"
Date: March 16, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Sufficient and efficient for my needs
Content:
I'd been trying to decide which netbook or thin & light notebook to purchase since hearing that some manufacturers were going to release netbooks with 12" screens.  I'd purchased a Samsung NC10 for my college bound son late in 2008.  I liked the concept of netbooks but realized I'd want a bigger keyboard as well as long battery life.  I almost got one of the 12" netbooks but I'm glad I decided to spend more money for the UL20A-A2.  I've had mine for four weeks today and I'm very happy with it.
It's not a perfect notebook but it fits my needs well.  Its ULV processor seems more powerful and adaptable than the Intel Atom. The low power processor may be inappropriate for those whose primary uses include gaming or intensive complex calculations or instructions, but it's been fine for word processing and educational applications from the web as well as general web browsing and email.  It has great battery life. I've been getting over 8 hours under 'balanced' power management with wi-fi connections which is more than I expected.  I could probably work longer on battery power with power settings for maximum battery life.  I love the full sized keyboard, though the 'chicklet' or island style is different than I've been accustomed to, it works well and feels fine to me. There's some slight keyboard flex but it doesn't feel excessive and isn't distracting to me.  The 13.3 screen is big enough for my needs and has fine resolution.  I prefer matte to glossy screens but I was willing to compromise and haven't found the screen reflection to be too distracting.  I've been able to position the notebook to avoid excessive reflected glare. The resolution and color saturation seem excellent to me; it's a beautiful screen.  Streaming video from Hulu and YouTube have worked fine for me in limited testing.  The aluminum cover and overall lines give the notebook a clean aesthetic appeal.  I haven't needed gaming quality graphics so I'm not bothered by the integrated graphics controller's limited capabilities -- they are sufficient for my needs.  I bought an ASUS external CD/DVD drive to be able to load software and record back ups. I didn't use the CD/DVD on my previous notebook computers often; so not having one affords increased battery power, and reduces both complexity and weight which adds to my satisfaction.  The built-in touch pad is what I term 'twitchy' and it's position sometimes disrupts typing if either thumb brushes it.  I solved that difficulty by using a Logitech USB optical travel mouse, and setting the control panel to disable the touch pad with the mouse is plugged in.  
Other reviewers have been critical of the wi-fi card / reception but I have not experienced any serious problems connecting to either our home or public wi-fi networks. It's possible that a better antenna would improve reception or perhaps my unit got a better antenna than those of people who have had problems.  I'm glad the unit comes with Windows 7, it seems to be an improvement to XP (which I like).  I haven't used Windows VISTA enough to compare it with 7.    I highly recommend this product to those who want a general purpose light thin notebook with more power and better screen and keyboard than a netbook without the unnecessary features of a business or gaming class notebook. A great notebook for high school & college students (who don't need high resolution gaming graphics), elementary & secondary teachers and others who need light mobile computing.  For those who need more graphics options but who don't need a built in CD/DVD drive I understand the newer UL30vt has switchable graphics with a similar battery life for a slightly but not exorbitantly higher price.  I was stretching my budget to get the UL30A and so far haven't needed the graphics power so I am quite happy with my purchase.