ID: B002P3KMVC-R5IAWLX355MW3-A1BJCNBNXMYSE1
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30A-X5-Light-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A1BJCNBNXMYSE1
ReviewerName: Sean Pasell
Date: December 15, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: Excellent Machine...one issue
Content:
I love this machine.  The speed is the fastest I've ever used, and I've used quite a bit of different machines.  
The battery life is just unreal.  I did not think I could get a TRUE 10 hours out of this machine but I did, and I run a lot of programs, use wifi, and watch video pretty consistently.  
HOWEVER:
I'm returning it.  Why?  Because the battery is so loose that I feel that any second, it's gonna just fall out.  I hear it jiggling and rattling and it's become annoying.  That STINKS because I love it.  
I'm hoping I can get a replacement quickly because I think it might be isolated.  However, if anyone else has this issue, I'd like to hear from you.  I really love this machine and don't want to say goodbye but it there's no way I can live with this issue.  Not only that, but my return time is running out and I need to make that decision NOW. 
If anyone else has this issue, please post here.  I'm curious if I am the only one and if I am, I will be relieved!!!
UPDATE 1/22/2010:
So I returned my last machine and replaced it with the exact same model.  1st 2 weeks, everything was going really smooth with the battery.  As I mentioned, the reason I returned the last machine was due to battery being very loose.  Well, after 2 weeks, the battery is loose once again.  I'm not sure it's as loose as my last one, but when you flick the battery pack on the machine, it rattles around.  
I cannot believe this would be such a hard thing to fix...I mean, given the fact the machine is very nice overall, this worries me.  I'm worried that the battery will become more loose and eventually fail.  
I have to tell you that outside of that fact, this is by far the best machine that I have ever owned.  I am getting my wife the new Sony Z series machine since with the battery, she does not want to deal with it, and Sony was my second choice.  
I am blown away by how fast this is.  Upon boot up, and using the Fast Boot feature to stop programs from starting that don't need to, from the time I power on to being able to use and connecting to internet, I am logging in at between 3-40 seconds.  My last machine, Lenovo x61 would take at LEAST 2-4 minutes and I even removed many programs and start up programs that were useless.  
Again, battery life is amazing.  I cycled through the battery 4 times, and here is what I am getting:
On High Performance, unplugged, running Microsoft office continually and heavy (Outlook, Word, Excel), as well as surfing internet and a few videos, I am getting right around 8 hours...and that is at HIGH PERFORMANCE mode unplugged.  
When I use Battery Saver mode, under the same circumstances, I am getting anywhere between 10-11 hours.  That is simply amazing.  Battery saving mode is kind of cool as well, as it removes the wallpaper or desktop pictures and puts it into a simple white screen with icon and task bar unlocked.  Very good idea to save critical battery life.  
Outside of the ANNOYING battery life, I could not be any happier.