ID: B002FWMF8G-R8IJ9DU7M34X2-A35Q0RBM3YNQNF
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Mr-Coffee-BVMC-FM1-20-Ounce-Frappe
ReviewerID: A35Q0RBM3YNQNF
ReviewerName: M. Hill
Date: December 22, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 10
Rating: 3.0
Title: To frappe, or not to frappe, that is the question.
Content:
The Mr. Coffee Cafe Frappe works as advertized - the problem is in the proportions of recipe ingredients. I like strong coffee, so I want that flavor right out front, but because of the quantity of ice, all the ingredients end up watered down. This isn't a fatal flaw. Adjustments are needed to the enclosed recipe book to obtain the taste of a coffee house frappe. Before beginning, make sure to have 4 cup size paper filters - they aren't included - and I actually drove to four stores before I found them because most places don't stock them.
First, I tried the Classic Mocha Frappe recipe, making no adjustments. I ground fresh Starbucks espresso coffee beans.   I measured 1/2 cup of water and poured it into the brewing area. There is no visible guideline for the water so a measuring cup is a necessity. In fact, with this machine - the measurements are all relatively precise.
 
I put just under two cups of ice in the blending container and poured in the remaining ingredients, chocolate syrup, sugar and milk. I locked on the lid and locked the blending jar on the base unit. I pressed the power button, then the frappe button and the cycle began.  The unit quietly brewed the espresso and then the light blinked to warn of the ice crushing cycle - which is a nice touch since the racket is startling, although no worse than any good blender.
 
I kept the ice level at least an inch below the maximum ice line, and measured ingredients carefully, but the contents of the blending jar splattered out the lid hole necessitating a small amount of clean-up. This isn't a big deal, but a little annoying. I kept adjusting the ice downward with each recipe trying to eliminate the splatter. About a cup and 2/3 of ice worked best. Even when starting with crushed ice, I still ended up with some little ice chunks. The blend button further pulverizes the ice, but unless the ice chunks are large enough to see in the blending jar, it is hard to tell that the drink needs additional blending until the drink is poured. The other small design complaint involves locking the jar onto the base and removing it - I found it awkward. 
The taste results of the Classic Mocha Frappe recipe were, for me, too weak and too watery/icy. So, I adjusted the ground espresso up from three to four well rounded tablespoons and switched to heavy cream for the 1/4 cup of milk. I slightly increased the chocolate syrup to 3 1/2 tablespoons and those modifications created a significant improvement -- a creamy frappe with a strong mocha flavor.
 
Next I tried the Chai Frappe. The recipe called for 4 chai tea bags. Not surprisingly, that quantity didn't provide enough flavor - the chai taste was very weak and the consistency not creamy enough. I repeated the recipe but this time with 6 chai tea bags and heavy cream. That fixed my taste issues. Using loose chai tea should create a stronger brew and would be less costly than using a handful of tea bags. 
I am not in the habit of putting heavy cream in drinks, but the quantity of ice required significantly dilutes the milk, coffee/tea and the rest of the ingredients. Possibly, coffee houses use a pre-made concentrated mix that compensates for the ice and keeps the flavors intense. This machine would be useful in creating low fat drinks to liven up a boring diet, but for a true coffee house frappe experience, expect to experiment with strong espresso beans, strong tea and rich cream.
The enclosed recipe booklet contains twenty drink concoctions divided by coffee, tea, ice cream and alcoholic categories. The user manual noted that frozen fruit not be used in the blending jar because it may interfere with pulverizing the ice. A small thing, but for those of us who make smoothies in our blenders, this seems like an unfortunate limitation. Frozen raspberries are usually more readily available than fresh. 
Also, the user manual did not provide any method for cleaning the brewing unit. Can vinegar or a cleaning solution be run through the coffee maker? At some point it will need to be cleaned, won't it? This left me with the feeling of impermanence. Perhaps it would be best to use filtered water, not only to improve the taste of the brewed coffee, but to keep the unit functioning optimally as long as possible. 
When I finished preparing the frappes, I looked around my kitchen. On the counter were my coffee grinder, the 1 cup measure (for water and cream), the 2 cup measure (for ice), a small bowl to put the espresso grounds in so I could accurately measure them into the brew basket, clean up cloth for splatters, measuring spoons for the coffee, syrups, sugar and flavorings, along with the coffee, chai, cream, sugar, syrups and flavorings. For a frappe lover, the effort will be worth the trouble. 
Update 2/1/10: Correction - there is a water level guide on the appliance that elminates the need for a measuring cup in the first part of the frappe making process -- it just wasn't obvious to me. Also, I am a coffee drinker and also enjoy frozen coffee drinks. I was looking forward to using this appliance.