ID: B0028N7442-R1RCSJ9KJJ3IUF-A2UWPPU5GZLMQZ
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-K-7-Digital-Shake-Reduction
ReviewerID: A2UWPPU5GZLMQZ
ReviewerName: Michael McKee "mystic cowboy"
Date: July 7, 2009
Helpful: 76 of 79
Rating: 5.0
Title: In a word, superb
Content:
Every once in a while I get a product that is "just right". The first VW Rabbit, a Taylor Guitar, a couple of my many Macs and my Klipsch speakers come to mind. They have that extra something that makes me love them. Other brands may be as good but these products click. Add the K-7 to that short list.
I couldn't believe that I bought this as I already own the very good Pentax K20D. The K-7 is a better camera. As the current have-to-have feature is video, Pentax included that with this camera. Not being that knowledgeable about video, it seems like it does a good job, though it isn't a quick, push one button action. 
But when it comes to still photos, it is superb. It feels good in the hand. It's noticeably smaller than the K20D and a bit lighter but don't make the mistake of thinking that small doesn't mean hefty. This thing is solid. It' build like a tank. I believe that the steel and magnesium body is tough. It sure feels that way.
Pentax has taken a good camera and fixed the little niggling problems that kept the K20D from being great. The slow, low light autofocus is fixed. That's fast and accurate now. The already decent high ISO performance seems to be about a full stop better. The camera now has a dedicated ISO button, too, which is a much appreciated addition. 
Other little touches shine, too. The camera handles like a dream. It's well balanced with my not very light lenses. The 4 way controller now has separate buttons, that let you access the functions individually. Excellent. The ISO button and exposure compensation buttons have been moved to the top of the camera where they can be easily found by feel. The review button, also has been moved to the top and doesn't have to be picked out of a cluttered back.
Oh, and the photos this takes are excellent. It has a bunch of scene modes and effects, which honestly I haven't used. I shoot RAW, though Pentax has left their exclusive RAW/JPEG button on the front of the camera if you choose to mix your image formats. I already mentioned the improved low light performance. High ISO noise doesn't really appear until 800 and then it's not something that detracts from the quality of the images. It actually produces usable images at 3200 ISO. They are grainier than some other cameras but Pentax applies very little noise control and the photos have more detail than other cameras I've tried. I like the balance that Pentax has taken.
One other nice detail is that Pentax has replaced the fiddly key you need to turn to access the SD card with a simple latched door. It's still weather sealed. The one place where the camera seems just a bit worse is in the media door on the other side of the camera. The solid door has been replace by a rubbery plug that I'm not fond of. It still seems to seal the camera but it feels cheap, the only part of the camera that isn't top-top.
One other area that's been improved is the burst speed. I honestly don't believe that the slower rate of the K20D was really a problem for most people but the numbers didn't look as good as the competition. That's "fixed" with a 5+ frame per second rate. It just shows that Pentax really paid attention to what people said about the K20D and fixed it. Pentax also added a high dynamic range feature that does a pretty good job. That has two ranges. The high one shows that HDR strangeness that I've come to expect. The middle range does a pretty good job, though I still like to bracket the exposure and post process. Though I did use it this afternoon and got a decent exposure. 
For a serious amateur, I can't image a better camera. Go to a camera store and pick one up. I'm guessing that you'll like this gem, too.
**Addendum - I just spent the last week with my new macro lens. The new ability to zoom in with live view makes manual focusing easy to get spot on. And manual focus is necessary with extreme close ups.
A problem with all DSLRs is that the lack of the split screen built into the old film cameras makes manual focusing less precise than it was with them. There really are no models that I know of that don't suffer from this. Live view zoom solves this.(you can add a focusing screen but I understand that those mess with metering)