ID: B00267S7UK-R1IGFNUN116SJA-AZYNEF5W7WIK4
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D5000-2-7-inch-Vari-angle-Body
ReviewerID: AZYNEF5W7WIK4
ReviewerName: Girl In A Box
Date: March 26, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great camera, but missing one main feature
Content:
This is a great little camera.  I was so excited to get it - it was really easy to use and has so many features to play with. I flipped through the manual in no time and was able to feel completely knowledgeable about it and comfortable with using it for the first time.  When I was considering buying it, I was also considering the D90.  I kept going back and forth trying to figure out which camera was for me and I chose the D5000 because of the cheaper price.  I have been getting into photography more and more and really wanted a second body (I also have the D50, which is also a great camera).  So this camera seemed like a good option before I started thinking about spending thousands of dollars on a professional camera.  I actually used the D5000 to shoot a professional job and it worked like a charm.  However, I recently bought a new lens that did not have the Auto Focus button on it, meaning, if your camera doesn't have the auto-focus motor built inside, then you are going to have to manually focus with these types of lenses.  I knew this when I bought the D5000 and wasn't concerned because I figured I'd stick with lenses that had the auto-focus button and since that was the wave of the future, why would I need old lenses?  Well, I was wrong, I needed this one particular lens and I was surprised when I was reminded that it wouldn't auto-focus with the D5000.  It would auto-focus on my D50, but the D5000 was so much faster and the most important functions for me were speed and focus.  So the lack of auto-focus motor is a deal breaker for me.  I am exchanging it tomorrow for a D90, which has all the features the D5000 has and more.  It is a semi-pro camera and has the in camera auto-focus monitor and very high ISO capabilities.  I will also be paying the $200 difference that I didn't want to pay in the first place, but at least I know I'll be happier with the D90.  Don't get me wrong, I am not giving the D5000 a bad review - I'm just saying, make sure you know what's missing.  If auto focus is at the top of your priority list for a wider selection of lenses, then don't get the D5000.  Spend the extra on the D90.  If you're looking for a camera that's super lightweight, easy to use, takes great pictures and has a million bells and whistles (not to mention the cool graphics on the LCD screen that I really will miss, but are really not necessary - just visual fun), then go for the D5000.