ID: B002BH4QN2-RSD0O4HC1XGJN-ASI7XVZ21WTIM
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV6-1230US-15-6-Inch-Entertainment-Laptop
ReviewerID: ASI7XVZ21WTIM
ReviewerName: Han K. Lee "Classicvibe"
Date: August 21, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 8
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good, but a bit quirky
Content:
I gave it four stars, so obviously I like it.  Nice look and design, although the light up HP logo on the back may bother some since one cannot turn it off while the laptop is on (EDIT - after 4 months, I don't even notice it-so don't worry).  As far as laptops go it's good, 4 USB ports ( actually 3, but another port can act as a USB anyways, for a total of 4), craploads of other random things like HDMI, SD, etc.  Screen is pretty good, not as much glare.
It didn't come with as much preinstalled software as I expected, so there shouldn't be much of a problem uninstalling those if you want to.  Norton and Microsoft Office are both trial versions, so too bad.  (Get Microsoft Office 2010 beta for free!)
Only problems I really have with it is that the optical drive, or CD drive, tends to vibrate and get a bit noisy while reading discs at high speed, and the battery sticks out from the bottom.  Normally this would help, given that it presents a sort of tilt for the laptop, making it easier to use the keyboard.  But since the bottom of the laptop is not normalized, it can be awkward to place on certain surfaces
For one thing, I have no real idea about what laptop cooler to buy because of it...  Coolers are designed to be close to the bottom right?  And given that some coolers also give a slight tilt to the laptop, there may be something called TOO much tilt to the keyboard...
Anyways, the battery is 12 cells instead of 6 cells, so that it last for about 5 hours rather than 3, although this si why the battery sticks out from the bottom, it's pretty big.  The remote control is a nice touch, even though it seems you can 
only use it for the HP Real media player.  
EDIT:
I have to mention that the graphics card on this computer is INTEGRATED (which in the gaming world means ****)
I somehow got Call of Duty Modern Warfare ONE to play on lowest settings with good FPS (zero lag), and Left 4 Dead 2 on this computer with slightly OK FPS (lags in certain scenes, unplayable after an hour or so)  But I'm not even going to try to play something like COD MW2 or Dragon Age Origins on this computer...
It got hella hot with L4D2, and that was with a laptop cooler
Although I know that most gamers will avoid a computer like this, if it's light gaming the computer will do fine.
Older games, with a release date around 2006 or before will play fine, even on higher settings