ID: B0021XW3YU-R1SYUSX00RN39J-A3N3VQA7DEGT18
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Kodak-EasyShare-Digital-Camera-Black
ReviewerID: A3N3VQA7DEGT18
ReviewerName: freestyleFrEaK
Date: April 16, 2010
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 4.0
Title: A nice little point-and-shoot compact digital cam with a 10X zoom!
Content:
Let me first start by saying it's absurd and so trivial that some people feel the need to give a perfectly acceptable digital camera a poor rating because they can't get their pictures from it or because it doesn't come with a full page manual.  Frankly, people this dumb don't deserve to even think about handling a digital camera, let alone a computer.  It's 2010.  Today we have SDHC cards in digital cameras (jpeg compatibility), card readers, and printers (to print out manuals (even digital cameras costing 4X this price don't have printed manuals included).  Furthermore, if you don't like the software included with the product, don't use it.  Nobody's holding a gun to your head.  There are plenty of other photo software programs ready to accept your photos from this camera.  I don't care to dwell on stupidity so I'll move on.
       I purchased this camera on an impulse buy.  I already have a compact Canon A590, and a megazoom Canon SX20, but needed a compact that had better resolution, and a greater zoom capability but wasn't as large as my megazoom.  I really wasn't expecting much from this Kodak Z915 and really was intending to return it after a few days, but upon using it for a week now, I'm fixed on keeping it.
       The Kodak Z915 weighs approximately 280 grams with an added SDHC card and a good pair of Ni-mH batteries.  It measures 1.5 inches in depth, 4 inches wide, and 3 inches in height, with a 3 inch lens extension outward when in full zoom.  There is a mic pickup on the face, and a small speaker output on the top left of the camera.  On the top right we have a small power on/off button, a toggle in/out and snap button, a flash on/off button, and macro and timer buttons as well.  The camera looks slightly smaller in person than in pictures.  The body is made of plastic, aswell as the toggle switch.  All of which feel kind of cheap.  There is a program selection wheel on the top, and a color 2.5 inch lcd screen on the back along with four small function buttons running vertically along the lcd screen (delete, menu, info, and toggle camera / playback button).  On the side we have a port for a 3 volt in ac to dc adapter, and a mini usb out port.
       In terms of selectable modes, we have a scene selection, a panorama option, a setting for "sports", a "smart capture" position for simple automatic point-and-shoot, a video mode, a "program" option (let's you set aperature, iso, flash advance or delay), an "aperture priority" setting, a "shutter priority" option, and a "manual" position.  The "smart capture" setting is a pretty straight forward selection for those phototakers who don't want to mess with settings and lets the camera set them, essentially letting you just point and shoot.  My favorite option though is the "scene" selection.  Kodak has built in 17 settings under "scene" that help maximize your picture quality depending on various environments and lighting conditions.  I find my pictures turn out a little better than just on the "smart capture" mode here with the "scene" choices. The "scene" choices include High ISO (for low light situations), portrait, night portrait, landscape, night landscape, flower (for vivid pics of flowers in bright light), sunset, backlight (for photos where light in behind the subject), candle light, manner / museum (where camera sound and flash are not desired), text (taking photos of documents), beach (bright situations), snow (bright white backgrounds), fireworks (displays of vivid bright night colors), children (playing in bright situations), self-portrait, and stage (for people on stage, less blur, more brightness, and no flash).  The camera doesn't have a true wide-angle position, but under the "panorama" setting there is the ability to take a 3 stage set of pictures from left to right, or right to left, and the camera binds all 3 pics (or "stitches" them together) for a wide-angle effect pic.  This is truly amazing and I've seen anything like it.  I've managed to put some fantastic panoramic pics together of some breathtaking landscapes with this option!
       In the "menu" selection, we have 2 options for "capture" and "tool" settings.  Here we can adjust picture size from 10 MP (4:3), 8.9 MP (3:2), 7.5 MP (16:9), 5.0 MP (4:3), 3.1 MP (4:3), 2.2 MP (3:2), and finally 2.1 MP (16:9).  An excellent wide selection of picture resolution choices!  Under "tools" we can select the color mode (natural, high color, low color, sepia, and b&w).  We can turn on or off the face detection option, set automatic focus to single or continuous, and set the LCD brightness.  Additional selections include image grid, red-eye reduction, date and time stamp, image stabilization, quickview, camera sounds, video out (NTSC or PAL), image storage (memory card, internal 32 mb only, or both using internal as backup for the memory card).  We also have language, reset, and format selections as well.
       In terms of taking pictures and video, I find it's always best to know you're working environment and being able to fine tune the options on the camera for best photo and video quality.  Don't get me wrong, the simple "smart capture" mode works fine, but you can squeeze out some incredibly impressive photos from this little digital cam if you know how to get your settings right.  It's really something that comes with experimentation and experience.  The macro mode works well even though there has been some negative feedback about it here on Amazon.  Ideally, anywhere you have bad lighting, the macro focus won't focus, and you'll have bad pics.  I've managed to take some neat close=ups of flowers and other things at distances of about 3 inches, but anything closer causes the focus to blur.  The video is pretty crisp and sounds decent, but keep in mind it's at 640x480, so don't expect HD quality here.  Still, a nice little option for those moments you don't want to miss the "live" moments.  The use of a pair of regular AA batteries is excellent.  I don't understand why some people don't like using AA batteries?  A pair of high-powered ni-mh batteries will keep this camera running for hours under video mode, and lets you take hundreds of photos before needing recharging.  And if you're out on the road with no recharger, there's almost always somewhere you can go to pick up a set of alkalines for those occasions you need to get back to taking photos quickly.  The memory card slot accepts the largest card I have (32 gig) and when you're ready to view your photos is simple to remove and place in my laptop card reader or usb cardreader port on my dvd player.  
       A couple small things that i don't like include the fact that the LCD is hard to view in bright light and it's resolution is pretty basic, but don't let the pics on the LCD fool you, when you blow them up on your monitor many of them look incredible.  
       I've decided to keep this camera.  Why?  It makes my Canon A590 Powershot pocket cam perform like a dinosaur.  The Canon's pics look flat, hazy, and dull compared to the Kodak's.  I've taken both to the park and put them head to head.  The picture quality (resolution) of the Kodak, zoom capability, and video is just that much better than the Canon (I never would have thought that about a Kodak versus a Canon) condisering both cameras were released at about the same time (2007/2008).  So if you're looking for a VERY versatile pocket cam that takes great pics and good video at a price that won't break the bank, I highly recommend this Kodak Z915.  I have absolutely no regrets in purchasing it!