ID: B002ONCCGQ-R1Z2EU4WFNQ6QN-A2D6IHA3BXHBNA
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DM3-1030US-13-3-Inch-Silver-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2D6IHA3BXHBNA
ReviewerName: bidou333
Date: December 4, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: Netbook-like Portability with Laptop Productivity
Content:
I bought this item to replace a three year old 14 inch eMachines laptop that I spilled coffee on (yeah yeah I know).  I looked at netbooks for a while because I liked the portability and lower price but realized that for $100-$150 more I could get this nice 13 inch laptop which fell right where I was looking to be.  Netbooks are restricted with processor speed, ram, size (if you're looking for something slightly larger) and functionality (you can only get it with Windows Starter Edition).  
So when compared to a typical laptop, is this a great machine?  Well that depends on what you're looking for.  If you're looking for a small laptop with very reasonable performance all around that won't break the bank, then yes this is a great machine.  On sale this unit can be found for around $500-$550 right now (if you are patient and keep an eye on prices) making it a steal in my book.  I won't go into all the details since the other reviews pretty much addresses them all but here are a few others and thoughts:
- Yes the track-pad is awful.  It is fairly slow even with the settings set as fast as they can go.  The clicking of the mouse button requires a "click" which I personally like over ones that seem to click every time I brush up against it but once again this may frustrate some people.  I use a mouse 90% of the time so the track-pad hasn't been a deterring factor (although it does leave crazy amounts of fingerprints).
- The keyboard is great if you ask me but if you use many shortcuts like some people tend to do, you'll find having to use the function key a bit of a hassle.  I've read in another review that for example the F keys can be programmed in the bios to be just that without the use of the function key, so that may be an option worth changing for some.  I am a bit surprised though that the keyboard does tend to imprint fingerprints too, but once again not a deal-breaker.
- The fan is not very loud (at least not mine although I read a couple people complain about it) but I found the bottom of the computer does tend to get a bit hot and sometimes the top where you rest on the keyboard.  This isn't unlike many computers and this thing is very slim yet fairly powerful so I suppose it's to be expected.  If you're the type that feels any heat is bad, then you may want to look elsewhere.
- The lack of a CD drive is worth noting.  Through the use of things like Nero to burn images of programs you only have on CD, Daemon Tools to read them, and Bit Torrent to get programs in digital form this is fairly easy to deal with but if you have limited knowledge of computers you may find that just installing your old version of MS Office that is on CD will be a challenge.  On a netbook the lack of a CD drive wouldn't even be worth mentioning but because this unit falls under the laptop category in every way then it's worth noting as a negative.
- Lastly, the battery life while I haven't extensively tested seems to be a bit poorer than I thought it would be.  I however don't give it much of a chance since I always have the brightness as high as it goes, wireless on, etc etc.  Using the item in lo-fi to gain some extra battery life isn't worth it to me but should I be without the accessibility of an outlet it's good to know that I can get by when changing the settings.
So if you can get over these setbacks (like I have) and can get this laptop for the $500-$550 range, then I highly recommend it.  If paying more, then the ASUS UL30A should seriously be considered.  It's got very similar specs except double the battery life plus some of the cons of this laptop such as the track-pad and such seems to not be present with the ASUS.  Choosing between the two basically boiled down to price for me and I've been very happy so far.  As far as choosing between a small laptop like this or a netbook, all I can say is that current netbooks don't have the processor speed, included and expandable ram, and video playback capabilities that this laptop has.  I can run multiple programs, including my accounting software, along with antivirus software, all at once without it skipping a beat.