ID: B0028N7442-R13T6Q8FPGVKF9-A6U3HH78QJDVM
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-K-7-Digital-Shake-Reduction
ReviewerID: A6U3HH78QJDVM
ReviewerName: Dave Duy Le
Date: February 22, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Sometimes the best things in life don't get mentioned.
Content:
Great camera, big improvement in low-light AF from previous Pentax DSLR's. One thing you must know is Pentax is one of the very few companies who make in-body stabilized DSLR's and used the same mount since film, allowing all current 3rd party lenses and manual lenses from 30 years ago to work on this body and still maintain optical stabilization. Huge advantage for Pentax over it's competitors, but sadly the world is brainwashed by what they see in Best Buy and the advertisements. 
Pentax builds cameras for photographers and hobbyists at the best of their ability. Pentax does not create 3 DSLRs in the same class, pricing them one over another after stripping features. Pentax are a loyal company to their loyal consumers; you will never see them screw their consumers over by producing a bunch of half-baked bodies and advertise them as everything. They make one DSLR for entry-level and one DSLR for semi-pro and putting all they have to offer for a more than reasonable price.
Aside from the quality of Pentax's craftsmanship throughout the years, the superb build quality of the K-7 is not to be forgotten, that over 50 years of producing some of the finest film SLR's and DSLR's, all of that innovation and time spent have been put into creating this masterpiece. 77 weather-seals making it resistant to dust, rain, and cold temperatures, this is truly the most powerful Pentax ever built to date.
Sometimes the best just don't get talked about, in fact most of the best things in life don't get talked about. Most people can't think for themselves. Out of all the people in the world, only a very select few who knows what's best for themselves. People don't come to realize the best things in life until it's too late. I'm glad to be part of the few who figured it out for myself. I do things in life that's best for me, not what others think is best for me. I go Pentax when others say otherwise, because when I held a Pentax in my hands for the very first time, I knew that was it.