ID: B002MUAEX4-R1NUUHD2XKLXOB-A1IYN7KV690VF5
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Panasonic-DMC-GF1-Four-Thirds-Interchangeable-Aspherical
ReviewerID: A1IYN7KV690VF5
ReviewerName: Lawrence B. Solum
Date: October 25, 2009
Helpful: 25 of 25
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very High Marks, Between DSLR & Pocket Camera
Content:
Summary: This is an excellent camera for its intended use--prosumer controls on a camera that is much lighter than a DSLR but not small enough to slip in the pockets in your shirt or pants.  Outstanding build quality, flexible feature set, good but not superb low light performance.
Background: My previous digital experience is with Nikon DSLRs (D3, D200, D70, D40x and with Canon "SD" or digital elph pocket cameras (several models).  I am an experienced photographer, shooting both raw and jpeg in all modes (fully manual, automatic, etc).
Comments: Like many photographers who use DSLRs, I have been looking for a camera that is easy to carry, but provides the same level of control and image quality associated with DSLR cameras.  The features that are important to me are: (1) full manual control over exposure (aperture, shutter speed, and ISO); (2) useable built-in flash, (3) high quality screen for image review, (4) portability, including both volume and weight, (5) decent low-light performance, (6) excellent image quality from both raw and jpeg files, and (7) design (simple and elegant).  My impression after several hundred images is that the GR1 with the 20mm pancake lens is the first camera that falls within the acceptable range on all my criteria.  Here are some thoughts about specific features:
(1) The control system is complex, but can be mastered within a few hours of normal use.  Once you learn to use the control wheel (which can be depressed to switch between modes), it is easy to adjust aperture and shutter speed.  The "quick menu" provides easy access to most important features, and the programmable function button is very handy.
(2) the built-in flash is usable for "fill flash" and for a limited range of situations, but is not sufficiently powerful for most flash applications.  I prefer natural light and rarely use flash for any reason other than fill, so the flash meets my needs.
(3) the image review screen is excellent.  I did purchase the external viewfinder.  I find it useable for framing and for for manual focus.  It is not a high resolution screen, but I do not regret the purchase.  After an initial trial period, I now leave it off the camera most of the time.
(4) the GF1 just meets my need for portability.  No interchangeable lens camera will fit easily in a pants or shirt pocket, and the GF1 does not.  It does fit in a jacket pocket with the 20mm pancake lens attached.  It can be carried in a smallish purse or bag.  It fits easily in a computer bag, messenger bag, or in a backpack compartment.  It easily can be stowed in a medium-sized or larger camera bag--it is small enough so that it will not displace a significant amount of gear.  Of course, I would be thrilled if there were a camera with the capacities of the GF1 that were even smaller, but I find the tradeoff to be very acceptable.  The GF1 has now totally displaced my current Canon SD (digital elph or Ixus).
(5) the low-light performance is acceptable, especially at the 1.7 aperture of the 20mm pancake lens.  Of course, the low-light performance of the GF1 does not come close to the Nikon D3, but the images at ISO 800 are very acceptable and I find the ISO 1600 & ISO 3200 images to be useable--although I am not bothered by graininess.
(6) more generally, the image quality is excellent.  In my opinion, the image quality is substantially better than any P&S camera with which I am familiar.  I have no experience with the new Canon G11 or S90--but I suspect that in some situations the GF1 with the better Micro Four Thirds lenses will have a significant edge over those cameras.  Many of the images from the GF1 have significant "pop" or "wow factor."  As is usually the case, the raw files can produce better images with post-processing (I use Lightroom and Photoshop), but I am happy with the jpegs, including the black and white jpegs.
(7) the design is (in my opinion) excellent.  I am impressed by the simplicity of the design.  The camera feels very solid and in my (large) hand, it has a satisfying "heft."  Tastes differ, of course, but I believe that many users will find this camera to be among the most aesthetically attractive cameras on the market today--taking into account appearance, ergonomics, and build-quality.
Conclusion: The GF1 with the pancake lens is a real step forward in the category of compact cameras for serious photographers.  In my opinion, it is the best camera in its "weight class" as of October 2009.  Rumor are flying about new cameras from Nikon, Ricoh, Sony, and others; and Leica has announced the X1--so a case could be made for delaying a purchase for a few months.  But in my experience, the GF1 is a very satisfying camera.  Like many other reviewers, I am using the GF1 extensively in situations where it is difficult to cary a heavy DSLR with multiple lenses.