ID: B002NEGTTW-R2X7G0L45GY45P-A1EUZS8SH4VAU9
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-EOS-7D-Body-Only
ReviewerID: A1EUZS8SH4VAU9
ReviewerName: Isaac Burdeinick "iburdeinick"
Date: December 25, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 8
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great Features compared to XT, AF on the soft side
Content:
I've had the Rebel XT (350D) for three going four years, and yes it is a awesome camera!
when I was looking for an upgrade to my rebel XT the T1i look really great, but then came the 7D and all of the new AF features and video. I think that the rebel body is lean and small even more now having a XD body.
If your on a budget the rebel T1i is a great upgrade with more MP (al dough with 8MP is more than enough) good video Q, live view and better high ISO performance than the XXXD and if you like the rebel series bodies then you should go for it, now if you don't mind the video The 50D offers higher ISO and FPS than the rebel series and better IQ overall.
7D !!! :
I do recommend the upgrade to any one moving in that direction. The size is no issue when you get all that features, and it feels really good solid and hefty in your hands. The FPS & AF Are Fast. The high ISO performance is amazing comparing it to the XT, the low light focus and results are simply great. The AF points and versatile setup is so much better than the XT there is no comparing it.
The view finder and the LCD screen are just awesome... you cannot compare it to the Rebel 350D its on another league.
The battery life is longer, you can record RAW a JPG on at the same time or choose to do it with a press of a button. And the list of features goes on.
I Think that there is still much potential on the 7D via firmware cos it's a awesome piece of hardware, no matter what they say.
18-270mm Tamron VC ( got it last year to upgrade the Rebel and now use with the 7D )
50D :
I think (money wise) that a Canon 50D is a good upgrade (IQ compared to the 7D) and don't care for the video or faster AF.
If you are looking for the most IQ available today, it's no brainer that the 5DMII is the choice (and don't mind the extra money) performs better in low light than the 7D. Now the 7D is faster on Focus and in FPS, so if youre a sports shooter or wildlife photographer the 7D will suit you more.
Hope it helps you decide
The AF is not 100% accurate all the time ( got in touch with Canon Tech and they say maybe its because of the Tamron Lens? ) I get a bit soft images that you can improve with PP but overall you get very good IQ ( if want excellent IQ get the 5DMKII )
Highly Recommended!