ID: B002L6HDTC-R285MD4LCISKJ2-A1AA56T6AO1206
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Black-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A1AA56T6AO1206
ReviewerName: Stephen G. Bernard
Date: January 12, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Gift for my wife, she loves it!
Content:
I'm a PC guy so buying apple seemed counter intuitive like many of their products. but this iPod really works a charm. my wife was always lugging my CD's in her car and I was worried about scratches. She also has her own music, well this seemed like a good idea, all her music in a small package. I bought a case on Amazon for it for a few bucks that was a good decision as well since if it drops this unit looks mighty light and might not survive a fall. With the new case it should. it works easily and was easy to setup. Muy wife mostly plays with it now and I only see it plugged into our PC to recharge. She loves it and thinks it's great. I know it's not as big and fancy as the iPod touch but this is only for playing music, nothing else. I figured 16GB is enough for all she will ever need, hopefully it will last a long time!
I did buy a set of aftermarket earbuds as the ones that came with it seemed to cut out on one side unless you fiddled with the wires. My 85 year old aunt was even impressed with how small and light it is.
My only real gripes are that you can't actually shut it off, just sleep mode and it is impossible to delete songs or pics from it. I must have spent 2 hours trying to figure out how to do that. This is why Apple products in general bug me. A delete option should be in the menu! You shouldn't need to sync it with your PC to delete pics or songs. We had multiples of some songs from compilation CD's and the pics were a test and just too much to remove. I guess Apple figures no one deletes anything. Other than that it's great and those issues aren't big enough to lose a star over. She doesn't use the radio and we tested the video which seems to work pretty well. but it's for music so those are a non-issue for us. The blue was her favorite color and does look great!