ID: B002MZYZHU-R2OIUY2FW6YII1-A2JKM8KF3296CW
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Breville-BKC700XL-Single-Serve-Coffeemaker-Iced-Beverage
ReviewerID: A2JKM8KF3296CW
ReviewerName: ck_361 "ck_361"
Date: December 12, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good system.  Some flaws.  Worth the price?
Content:
I have owned and used the Breville Gourmet Single Cup Brewer for two weeks now.  Right out of the box it's easy to set-up.  I didn't need to read the directions; everything from plugging it in, figuring out how to fill the reservoir, and setting up the water filter were all self explanatory.  Navigating the menu was also simple; I was able to select the water temperature, brew size, set the auto-off feature, and clock in a matter of minutes.  
Things I like:
  1) The blue-hue being emitted from the water tank, very calming.
  2) The menu screen is very clear to read and navigate.
  3) The drip tray is easily removed for cleaning.
  4) Filling the reservoir is easy.  We use filtered water to begin with, not sure if we really need the added water filter that's included (it's good for up to 2 months).  
  5) Love that it's stainless steel.
  6) Including the additional filter and scooper, and having it tucked away in the top of the brewing system is really handy!  (Good option that I had to pay extra for when I purchased the Keurig B40 Elite Gourmet Single-Cup Home-Brewing System).
  7) The system can be off and within 2 minutes I can have a cup of hot chocolate; compatible to making a cup of hot water in the microwave.  I also use the hot water for cooking. 
Now for the dislikes:
  1) I actually don't like the design; it seems too industrial for my kitchen.  Although, my husband likes it.
  ** 2) It hasn't always worked.  Twice this system hasn't filled a cup completely.  I'm not sure why.  I didn't do anything differently; just not enough water came out.  I had to hit "Brew" again and it nearly overfilled my cup.  This evening I turned it on and had to go through the process of waiting for it to heat up, tell me to "open head," and "brew," only to NOT brew anything.  Finally, on the third try, it magically worked.  Not sure what that's about! 
All in all it's a good system.  Even with the hiccups of not working a couple of times it hasn't been too frustrating to get working again.  But, we'll have to see... I'll definitely add an update if it keeps happening. As for now, I'm liking it!  Just not sure it's worth the price over similar products...