ID: B002C7446A-RD43W3HFKLTF8-AP4W10X0JGAEW
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB991LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: AP4W10X0JGAEW
ReviewerName: Joe D. Bryant
Date: December 17, 2009
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: You truly get what you pay for
Content:
What can I say really, it's completely a fantastic computer.  I've had it for about three months now, and I've used it practically every day.  It takes a week or two to get fully used to all of the features, but now I have a hard time using a Windows computer.  It really is easy to learn how to use though.  And so far I haven't experienced any sort of problem whatsoever whether it's with the OS or any of the software, it just works.  That's just it, from the moment you hit the power button, everything is pretty much 100% ready to do anything in 25 seconds.  The LED backlit display is beautiful, compared to a matte finish LCD and a high-gloss LCD, this one hits a home run and it's easier on your battery.  The one thing I sort of didn't like too much, was the exaggerated 7-hour battery.  It will probably last you 7 hours-or even longer, but only if you're doing the most basic computing and on the lowest screen brightness and the backlit keys off.  But if you have maybe a few tabs open in Safari or Firefox, and a few other applications with the lowest brightness, you should get about 3-4 hours, which is not bad.  Also the graphics are good, but not amazing.  It is amazing, however, that it's actually an integrated graphics processor, rather than a dedicated.  For instance, I can play The Sims 3 on the highest possible settings and I can still get a playable 15 FPS.  And finally, the casing.  Many people say that you shouldn't buy a computer because of it's casing, I think it's well worth mentioning at least.  It's a metal shield around the inner components.  Would you rather have a plastic one or a metal one?  The plastic will shatter/crack when under pressure or if it drops, the metal one might dent so this is a good thing.  I've seen MacBooks drop and they are still running when you open it back up, so it kinda gives you that reassured feeling that you that you have a reliable and a dependable computer.
I don't regret buying it one bit, I realize what sort of Windows computer I could have gotten with $1300 (with tax) but, like I said...it's a computer that works, it's light, durable, beautiful.