ID: B002XZLURC-R13KWC6F59LOQ1-A3ATI5XT52ENX
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30Vt-X1-Light-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A3ATI5XT52ENX
ReviewerName: Russ
Date: February 9, 2010
Helpful: 6 of 10
Rating: 3.0
Title: Poor quality taints its speed and light weight benefits.
Content:
I was quite excited about getting this laptop for my girlfriend. The promise of light weight, long battery life and discrete graphics that allow for modest gaming sounded perfect for travel. Overall, I found a mix of goods & bads. The specs were correct and it is light & quick. But the quality is lacking. Details in the pros & cons below.
Pros:
Speedwise, the laptop is nice and snappy. Waking from sleep, booting and typical tasks are all quick and responsive. I was able to play World of Warcraft at a playable frame rate (20fps in a big city).
The keyboard is responsive. I like the fact that it has all the keys you'll need, as well as a numeric keypad when you hold the Function key down.
The ASUS IS quite cool on your lap. You can feel some real heat coming out of the left vent, but it goes away from you. I am a bit concerned about all the vents on the bottom that are blocked when the unit is on your lap... Haven't had an issue yet though. My personal laptop (a 1.5 year old Macbook Pro) is quite a bit warmer on the legs.
The light weight makes the UL30Vt easy to transport. I notice the weight in my pack, but it's not bad.
Cons:
Build quality leaves a bit to be desired. I'm used to a laptop with a full machined, all aluminum case and an edge to edge glass screen. The Ul30Vt has an aluminum surface on the back side of the display and that's it. Plastic everywhere else. The plastic around the bezel is not completely smooth, having various subtle, but noticeable waves and dimples in the surface, especially near the rubber bumpers. The gloss plastic surface around the bezel and keyboard is a fingerprint magnet. This doesn't affect performance, but gives a sense of cheapness.
Display Quality: This is probably my biggest issue. When people say the display has a narrow viewing angle, I'm like "No problem, I'll just tilt it to the right position". Well, even that doesn't work. The vertical viewing angle is so narrow, it's actually not possible to angle the display to a position that provides uniform brightness. If it's aimed directly at me, the center area (vertically) has nice deep, black blacks. But the upper and lower areas of the screen fade to a lighter black/gray, when they should remain completely black. This is probably OK for web surfing and email with predominantly white backgrounds, but in gaming or video watching where there can be a lot of black/dark backgrounds, it's bad.
Touchpad: The dimpled touchpad is a little odd, having no border to clue you in that you're off the edge (besides the lack of dimpling), but that part didn't bother me much. What did is that it's not very responsive. My laptop's touch pad is far far more sensitive. It's not the cursor speed setting that's the issue, it's that you sometimes need to move your fingers a significant amount to get a response. The ASUS touch pad does not recognize a 3 finger tap if your fingers are next to each other. You need to consciously spread your fingers out a bit.
Printed Documentation is lacking. There's a quick start manual that tells you a few setup things, but I can't tell why the Graphics Mode (discrete/integrated) button no longer does anything. Even when it did switch modes, the little LEDs showing the current mode never illuminated, so you couldn't be sure which mode you were in at a glance.
The spring holding the lid down when closed is too strong. You can't open the laptop with one hand (IE, while holding something or the laptop in your other hand). The whole front of the laptop lifts up. They could have designed something that held it closed more firmly while 95%  or more closed, but once you lifted the lid up a bit, it became easy enough to open without tilting the whole laptop up.
Waking from sleep: The UL30Vt can be made to sleep when the lid is closed. Why can't it wake from sleep when the lid is opened? You need to tap a key. Not a huge deal, but one of those little things you'd think would have been thought of.
Sticker-o-rama. Sheesh! This thing has more stickers than the sticker vending machine at Chuck E Cheese. Well, OK, at least 7 or 8. Some of them were very pernickety, like the Intel, GeForce and Windows stickers. A tip: Once you get the top part of these 3 stickers off (I worked at them with a fingernail), you can use another, more easily removed sticker to help pull up the gooey mess left behind.
Hard Drive Partitioning: Not sure what the benefit is to splitting the hard drive in 2 partitions, one for the system and one for data. They are on the same physical drive, so there wouldn't be a speed advantage. I suppose you can control fragmentation better. All I see is that it'll become a restriction later as one or the other partition fills first, leaving wasted room on the other unless you start storing that type of data on both partitions. IE, applications/music library, etc. Not a huge deal on a 500GB drive for most people. But I tend to fill the available space.
Neither Pro nor Con:
Battery Life: While I wasn't expecting the advertised "up to 11 hours", 4.5 hours in general wireless web surfing use is quite a bit lower. However, this is well more than the 2.5 hours of my laptop, so I'm not making it a negative.
Crapware: There was some, but not an immense amount of crapware. Some sort of virus protection software you can activate (for a fee, likely). I just removed it and installed the free MS Security Essentials. There are also games. I left those on in case my GF wants them.
Summary: While there are a lot of cons, the UL30Vt does do some things well. It's probably a good fit for some people. Specifically, where price, light weight and speed come before overall laptop and display quality. It'll likely be fine for my girlfriend, but I wouldn't put up with the issues for my own use. I suppose I've gotten spoiled.