ID: B002C745OQ-R2IQ6P0ZYT5I1I-ABOBW48SSEGP5
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB986LL-15-4-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: ABOBW48SSEGP5
ReviewerName: G. Baker "TrevorBakerFilm"
Date: February 17, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Apple has done it again
Content:
This is my second laptop from apple and I love it.  
To be clear, I have the 2.66 15 inch model with an ANTI-Glare screen.
Case and Keyboard-
Pros:  Apple really did a great job designing this laptop.  The black keys are beautiful and match the rest of the laptop.  The case looks and even feels great.  The Anti glare screen is the same color as the rest of the laptop (Aluminum) but there is a beautiful black trim around it.  When closing the laptop magnets keep the screen firmly closed, a really nice touch.
Cons:  The only really con I can think of is the placement of the USB and Firewire ports.  They are all on the same side which becomes very cluttered when having multiple connections.  Personally, I constantly have every port used so this is somewhat of a problem.  The positives definitely outweigh this small negative. 
Anti Glare Screen-
Pros: Does it's job, no reflection and still works great.
Cons:  Nothing, its only $50 for the upgrade, do it.
Performance- 
Pros: I am a video editor and this thing flies whether you are using final cut pro or avid.  
Cons: None
Trackpad-
Pros: This trackpad is really fun.  Apple really has the best technology when it comes touch surfaces.  Expose feature works great and the pad is fully customizable with 3rd party software.
Cons: Sure, its great that you can push down anywhere on the pad, but it takes some effort to do this.  
Operating System-
Pros: Most agree that Mac OsX is the strongest operating system out there. But if you prefer to use both, bootcamp works FLAWLESSLY. (other than having your typical windows problems)
Cons: This is obviously a very subjective area.  Some might say the lack of program integration is a negative, but bootcamp solves that.  Some might say apple doesn't many programs, but search the web for a couple minutes and you'll find otherwise.  So I can honestly say the OS has no significant cons.
Customer Service-
Pros: Apple has the best customer service in the world.  As long as you are nice to them they will take care of you.  I would highly recommend the 3 year warranty because like anything, things break.
Cons: Very expensive to have things fixed (by apple) without the warranty.  You wouldn't drive a car without insurance, just buy the warranty.
Overall: Incredible laptop, incredible performance, you will not be disappointed.