ID: B002XZLURC-R3OVDKZTVIJ8NE-A245QQ80PXNNJU
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30Vt-X1-Light-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A245QQ80PXNNJU
ReviewerName: Brandon K. Esplin
Date: January 14, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 5
Rating: 3.0
Title: Awesome laptop with a deceptive battery life rating - should be solid 4-5hrs.
Content:
First, I have to say this is an amazing laptop! Very thin and light, comfortable and sleek.  However the 'propaganda' provided that this is an 11hr laptop is VERY misleading if not openly deceptive.  I read the reviews and everything written about this laptop before I placed my order probably 3 times.  One thing that worried me was a review where someone said they would be lucky to get 5 - 6 hrs battery life out of it.. well even that is optimistic.  This laptop comes with software that manages the power consumption with four different settings if you set it to the most efficient setting it even replaces the desktop background with a more efficient background, auto hides the taskbar, disables the widgets on the desktop, all in addition to the normal dimming the screen and throttling the CPU.  I had hoped... that this extreme setting would provide the means for at least the 5 - 6 hrs that others said was doable... and it might but not very confidently.  For a laptop that when I bought it said 12 hr battery life (later updated to say only 11) I would expect at least 8 - 10 hrs by choosing the most efficient settings with normal web use.  That is not the case!! Oh and this is even using the integrated graphics not the more inefficient (but awesome) discrete graphics card. So I did some research on Amazon's return policy because I was so intensely alarmed by the discrepancy of the real thing from the advertising.. it looks like I could return it for 85% of my money back.  Considering I splurged to buy this over the HP DM3-1030-US (which easily goes on sale for the $500 - $550 range) primarily for what I thought would be 2 times the battery life I am thinking heavily about returning this and buying the HP.. and cutting my losses.  However from Amazon's policy I think I have 30 days from shipping date to do this return... and I do really like the laptop so I think I am going to use it for another week before I decide either way.  Also I considered the Acer Timeline series... that may be a better route for a great battery life.