ID: B002L6HE7S-R1SA395ACYQM3V-A36E703QD6PYB5
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Orange-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A36E703QD6PYB5
ReviewerName: CVO Christi "Satellite Girl"
Date: February 28, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great product!
Content:
Why did I wait so long to buy one of these?!  Well, luckily I did wait, 'cause I like the features of my gen 5 Ipod nano.  The only thing missing for me, is an am radio tuner so that I could listen to sports broadcasts while at the game.  If the nano had am radio, I would use it everyday and it would be my only device.
I bought this before a recent cruise, and it was the best thing I had with me.  Great for down time at the airport, on the plane and while relaxing on the cruise.
The "sleep" feature allowed me to go to sleep with my music, and ignore the TV that others were listening to.
I bought a hard protective case with a clip, from Apple and that was all I needed or wanted.  The clip allowed me to attach the nano to my pant pocket when walking, or my long sleeve cuff while on the plane.  I clipped it to my pj collar when using the sleep feature.  It was easy to use and I knew it wasn't going to fall if I forgot it.  The clip also turns around and can be used as a handle for holding the nano when using the nano as a video camera.  
Even the smallest accessory for your nano seems to cost over $20 from the Apple store.  However, I felt the quality of the product (the hard case) was nicer than the cheap one a friend of mine bought.
I wish the battery life was a little longer, it's not bad, but still it doesn't seem to take long to get to the half way point.
The only other annoying thing is that you have to hold the nano in a vertical direction in order to access the volume control.  If it is lying flat on your lap or on the bed, turning the dial activates the cover flow feature.  I haven't figured how to fix that.  Don't know if I can.  I wish the default mode was volume control.
The pedometer is cool.  you don't even have to calibrate it for your steps, it just works.  It's the best pedometer I've had.  However, due to battery life, I'm not sure you could wear it all day.  I use it for my exercise sessions.  You can send your pedometer info to a Nike website to track for you, for free.
I just can't say enough good stuff about my nano.  Glad i got the 16 GB, I am not worrying about space at all.  I have about 130 songs and 140 podcasts on it.  My friends 8GB nano is almost full.  She has photos plus 900 songs.
iTunes makes getting music and podcasts so easy.  Too bad you can't use iTunes with non Apple products (or at least not easily.  I haven't been able to do it).  I haven't figured out how to burn CD's of my downloads either.  If you don't have an ipod, you only can use your computer to listen with.
Bottom line...LOVE IT, wish I had bought one sooner.