ID: B002OHDBZS-R2KEN9TC9D6XWK-A21CBVCK5DY3MM
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-Digital-Reduction-18-55mm-Resistant
ReviewerID: A21CBVCK5DY3MM
ReviewerName: robert
Date: February 3, 2010
Helpful: 5 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Pentax K7 w/ kit lens
Content:
After a 30 year hiatus from photography I got in to a new hobby of computers. After building myself a few, one for my wife and another for a friend I decided to build the pc of all pc's. I ended up with a new Intel Core I7 (1366 platform) 920. The default speed of that processor is 2.67 GHz.Taking all the knowledge I aquired in previous builds, I added the most proficient air cooler to the chip, replaced all the fans in my Cooler Master HAF 932 case for maximum air flow to keep the unit cool, then I overclocked that CPU to 4.2 GHz. Then putting in two powerful video cards and 6 gigabytes of the fastest RAM on the market ( 2000MHz ), and running stress test after stress test finally reaching a top speed of 4.357GHz I could get no more performance out of the build. I tuned it back down to 4.2 GHz to run 24/7 and came to the realization I was bored. :) That being the case I had to find a new hobby that would preferably utilize all the power I had built into my new PC. Having sold my old Minolta X700 and it's lenses a few months earlier, hating my point and shoot camera, I decided to re-teach myself photography in the digital format. Back to researching and reading all I could to make an informed purchase, I came across the Pentax K7. This unit having more features than I ever came across shooting film, falling in to a price range I found affordable and being several hundred dollars cheaper with comparable features in a Canon or a Nikon I felt this would be a good price to performance buy and I went for it, and I am so glad I did. This little wonder is going to take me years to master. With so many shooting formats as well as hi-def movie capability, coupled up with my new PC and some nice software to work with my shots, I don't anticipate beig bored again for a very long time. It was a Christmas present to myself and I've probably taken 1500 to 2000 pictures so far trying to learn what some of the things built into it do. What an impressive little tool this camera is. It's not a camera, it's a tool. I'm getting somewhat proficient at composing and choosing the correct exposure settings for the few formats I've chosen, I am REALLY having fun with this piece of equipment. I am at the infant stage in this new hobby as I not only have to digest all the things the camera can do, I have some complex software I need to learn as well. I don't think I'll ever make it as a professional photographer, although I'm pretty impressed with the photos this Pentax has produced I suppose one could become a pro with this camera.
Dollar for dollar, feature for feature, this new Pentax K7 is one exceptional buy.If you are not a pro and are looking for a great digital SLR to graduate to from a point and shoot and maybe having used a film SLR in your past, you should really take a good hard look at this Pentax. If I had to bracket this unit in a class I would say it's definately an enthusiasts camera bordering on the professional with all the features it comes with. Before you lay down thousands on a Canon or a Nikon having all the features included in the K7 I would recomend you take a good hard look at this camera and all the technology built in to it. From what I've seen in the photos I've taken, this is one little fantastic camera to consider!!