ID: B002ONCBX0-RN4OQXFF8NT72-A234RV1POKP02T
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV6-1360US-15-6-Inch-Espresso-Laptop
ReviewerID: A234RV1POKP02T
ReviewerName: Ludybelle
Date: December 9, 2009
Helpful: 12 of 23
Rating: 1.0
Title: Total disaster
Content:
Got this laptop today in the mail from a seller other than Amazon.com.  Opened it up got it out of the box pushed the power button and....... nothing happened.
Waited on the "starting windows" screen for a couple of minutes then I got a screen saying "can not find boot device".
Called HP tech support right away talking to a guy who I couldn't understand well (heavy Indian accent).  He tells me right off the bet that I have 350 days of warranty left on my computer.  I ask him how he figures that (after I repeated this a couple of times because besides not speaking English very well he also didn't understand it well), because I figured a year has 365 days and I got it out of the retail box 5 minutes ago, so where did the other 15 days go?  So he asks me again how long I had it and I tell him again 5 minutes (we repeat this question and answer game through the whole "tech support session".  So finally he asks me what the problem is and I tell him that my computer seems to be lacking a hard drive.
He asks me to shut off the computer and boot it up again.  Same thing.  Wants me to shut it off and boot it up again. Same thing.  Then he puts me on hold for 5 minutes comes back wants me to shut it off and turn it back on again while pressing the F10 button repeatedly which I do and a booting device screen comes up.  Puts me back on hold to converse with someone who supposedly has more knowledge than he does, comes back a couple minutes later (we should be about 20 min into the session by now because of repeatedly having to ask "excuse me" what did you say or repeating what I said because he couldn't understand me).  So he talks me through searching for my hard drive, wants me to click on the device and press enter which I do...  Whoops it doesn't exist.....  Oh my isnt' that just too bad. 
Puts me back on hold, comes back a couple minutes later (we should be about 30 min into the session by now because of repeatedly having to ask "excuse me" what did you say or repeating what I said because he couldn't understand me).  Now he suggests to me that I open up my laptop and look for the hard drive and take it out and re-install it.  I'm asking him if he is kidding?  No he wasn't kidding.  I told him I just took this laptop out of the box, paid almost $900 for it and he wants me to go open it and try to fix it?  Well he told me if I wasn't comfortable with that I didn't have to but then I would have to send it in to them so they could fix it for me and return it to me.  I told him that wasn't an acceptable solution for me either because I didn't pay for a refurbished laptop but a retail priced laptop that should be working.  If I send it back to them to fix it it's technically a refurb.  I told him I wanted to exchange this laptop for another brand new same laptop with a hard drive this time.  He told me he was sorry but my technical issue was not warranteed under the replacement warranty option.
So really?????  I buy a brand new retail priced laptop that I take out of the box and isn't working but that is not a replacement warranty problem?  I wonder what would be a replacement problem then?  When it arrives with only the shell... ah no then you probably have to send it back so they can put the rest of the stuff in.  Really.... this is ridiculous and I'm very frustrated.
After having had about 6 sony's (3 of them POS also) I figured I try HP since it's rated pretty good.  Got a 1350US for my son for his birthday which seems to be working just fine, so got this higher model 1360US and end up being frustrated and disappointed especially with the customer service (and really how can a laptop leave the factory with no hard drive or a not working hard drive anyway?  Is there no quality control on these things?  I can understand minor issues but a computer that doesn't want to start up?????).  Either way I told them I wasn't going to accept having to send it in and hasseling with it that way and that I was only going to accept an exchange for the same item.  They couldn't do it (giving me the "this particular problem is not under the replacement warranty guarantee again), so I tell them fine, then I'll return it back to the store from where it came and exchange it for a Sony.  They told me I need to do what I need to do, so that's the story about HP customer service (and product quality control) towards a customer that can just go and return their product and buy something else entirely.  They didn't seem to care a whole lot that I was going to return it and buy a sony.  I could not get a working laptop because this particular problem didn't have a replacement warranty.....period.  That's how it is and if I need to buy another brand of laptop than I that would be my decision (I'm glad he gave me permission to make a decision like that.....) I hope nothing will go wrong with the 1350US because I can see what the hassle will be for a product that actually is out of the 14 day return warranty. 
So for me I don't think I will get another HP just because of this broken NEW product they refuse to replace, the lousy tech support and the fact that you do not get English speaking people on the phone.  I don't want to be rude but it's annoying have to say "excuse me" every other sentence and having to repeat yourself continuously.  I spoke to the tech and then his "supervisor" who were both heavily accented to the point that I was thinking I was talking to the same person.
Anyway I think if this laptop performs like my son's it would be a nice computer but I haven't had the chance to find out so I can't recommend this model to anyone nor would I recommend HP to anyone.  Just my experience.  
This is acually the next day and I contacted B&H where I purchased the laptop.  They were great, sending me a return shipping label and exchanging (actually re-purchasing and returning/refunding for faster service) my laptop with no questions asked.  When I get the replacement I will consider re-reviewing this laptop as I still think this may be a nice laptop.  I'm still baffled by the whole "customer service" from HP, still irritated with even receiving a laptop with an issue this huge but stuff happens.  Again I will review again when I receive the replacement.