ID: B002L6HDRE-R1JFE73L58TGNW-AGOPJZFEL0Q1E
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Green-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: AGOPJZFEL0Q1E
ReviewerName: Zube "kile25"
Date: January 6, 2010
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 3.0
Title: So, why would I want to review this?
Content:
It often seems like EVERYBODY has an iPod or Apple PMP (portable media player) of some type, so why would I want to review the 5G Nano?  Well, to start with, this is the first iPod/Apple PMP I've ever actually owned.  All the previous ones were simply borrowed for trial purposes. And it has finally dawned on me why iPods operate the way they do.  For whatever reason, here's a few comments that might prove helpful.
For my initial disclaimer, I will state that I have never cared for iPods.  I own mostly Cowon PMPs, but I've spent a lot of time using Sonys, Samsungs, and others.  Therefore, I will be biased.  Also, I should point out that I use nice headphones with my PMPs.  No, I don't mean $89 earbuds from Best Buy;  I mean real, quality, decent-sounding headphones and IEMs that normally cost at least twice what the PMP itself did.  Finally, I normally (but not always) use a quality external headphone amp.  It would be typical for me to be using a $350 set of headphones and a $300 headphone amp with my $175 PMP.  (And, yes, I do use less expensive headphones on a regular basis, but if you're going to haul a set of headphones on a plane, why not take some that sound good and are comfortable?)
There are several very positive things I can say about the 5G Nano. It is small, lightweight, and very cute, for example.  It also has one of the best (if not THE best) user interfaces of any PMP.  I wish that my other PMPs had these characteristics and features.  Apple really knocked one out of the park with the interface.
The iTunes application also provides one of the most seamless experiences as far as downloading file tags, keeping album artwork current, etc.  While I dislike having iTunes on my computer at all, I will admit that some its features are very slick.
On the other hand, the Nano has some issues that I have to work hard to overlook.  For one thing, the sound quality is mediocre and the power output to your headphones is pretty weak.  There's nothing wrong with the AAC audio format itself, or the quality of the files you download from Apple, but you just don't get the quality sound that you do in many other players.  Now, you certainly don't notice this with the stock earbuds, or even with the replacement buds you can pick up at your local convenience store.  You need to be using some quality headphones or IEMs to hear it.
Another problem is the poor battery life of the Nano.  I've had other users brag about getting seven hours of continous play out of a charge.  Brother, I'm here to tell you that a Cowon D2 (which is, granted, quite a bit larger) will play continuously for over 30 hours.
And the iTunes application, rather than the player itself, gives me some heartburn.  In spite of Apple's recent "conversion" to the non-DRM cabal, and the improved ability of the Nano to play formats other than AAC, iTunes can be a needless hassle in the middle of a music experience.  HOWEVER, I will, after using iTunes for a significant period, admit that I now understand and appreciate that (1) iTune users and most listeners nowadays do not listen to albums as a whole, and (2) that the limited memory of the Nano (and many other PMPs) makes it necessary to pick and choose individual songs to be loaded to the unit.
Let me expand on this.  I grew up listening to both hit singles and to whole albums, including many concept albums of the 60s and 70s.  When I place music on my PMPs I (almost) always place the whole album, in track order and with every song, on my PMP.  I won't say that iPod users NEVER do this, but it seems that this happens very seldom.  And, of course, this is encouraged by the fact that you can buy the song you like for 99 cents and skip the stuff you don't.  It's the hit 45-single model.  This makes economic sense, but, more importantly, it makes it clear to me why iTunes makes individual song management so easy at the cost of album/artist management.
Of course, the underlying issue here is that, even if you wanted to, you can't put a bunch of albums on a Nano due to memory limitations.  My Cowon D2 comes with 16 GB of internal memory, PLUS a SD slot that will use at least 32 GB media.  It's no problem at all for me to carry over 32 GB of music internal to the player.  This is what makes it POSSIBLE for me to carry around entire albums on the Cowon.
For my penultimate comment, I will gripe once again about the lack of drag and drop capabilities for the Nano.  If I want to copy all my Blue Oyster Cult albums to my Cowon, I just drag my Blue Oyster Cult folder over to the "Music" folder on my Cowon.  Enough said.
OK, I've rambled long enough.  In summary, the Nano has a great interface, sharp looks, and a whole lot of available accessories.  On the downside, the internal memory is limited, the sound quality is only average, the power output is low, and the battery life is below average.  And while I better understand the reasoning behind the iTunes application, this doesn't make it any more palatable.  I don't like it, I don't want to use it to buy music, and I don't want it on my computer.