ID: B002GHBRX4-R355766IBFZFYU-A238ZK9FQKQFC8
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Hoover-S3865-Platinum-Cyclonic-Canister
ReviewerID: A238ZK9FQKQFC8
ReviewerName: SoapyHollow
Date: April 6, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Solid performer for this price point
Content:
To start, I should mention that I'm hard on vacuums. We have different flooring types, multiple levels in the house, animals, long hair and children, as well as living in a never ending construction zone in the center of allergy alley.  Thus, I need a fairly heavy performing vacuum that manages flooring transitions as well as being able to do stairs and furniture. 
If that weren't asking a lot already, I need it to be heavy enough to be multifiltered and high powered, but light enough that I can tote it up the stairs. 
I've had the Platinum Hoover Canister for a 3 months now, and I've been pleased with the performance.  This one replaced a previous Windtunnel, and while I miss a few things from the old version (like different power settings), all in all, the new version outperforms the older version.  
Pros: 
Suction is fantastic.  Transitioning from area rugs to hardwoods and then to carpet is easy.  Super long power cord lets you do multiple areas without having to unplug and replug. Filters, filters, filters.  Allergies in the house have become noticeably better with this unit. It's a lot more quiet that previous versions.  Powerhead is fantastic for getting critter hair off the furniture and drapes. Reset button on the main head is a wonderful thing, if like me, you have ninja shoelaces in unlikely places; such as those cleverly hidden by small children who have kicked their shoes under the couch.  Almost no dust escapes the vacuum while it is running, and while it is all in one unit...but that leads us to the cons...
Cons: 
Emptying this vacuum is not for the wheezy.  You will get dirty, you will have a cloud of dust, you will curse yourself and the Hoover engineers if you make the mistake of emptying it in the house.  Trust me on this one.  The only good way to empty it is to take the canister out to your big trash can, standing upwind and praying. 
As well, the canister has collection areas that cannot be touched, washed or otherwise cleaned.  I realize that the engineering design behind this was to keep the user away from the dirt, but it also means that if something gets caked in there, like if you clean on a humid day...you're kinda hosed. (No pun intended....ok, a *little* intended.) It's as though the engineers had *seen* someone use a vacuum, but didn't actually vacuum anything themselves, and so hadn't quite worked through the final step of cleaning the vacuum itself. 
Still, the minor inconvenience of what I think is a poor engineering decision on that one part, is outweighed by the performance, the price point, and the significant reliability that I've gotten from other Hoover products. 
For a neat person with a small space, this vacuum is probably overkill...but for large houses filled with dirt tracking children and animals...this vac is a clear winner in it's price range.