ID: B002CR5Y28-R2N5U9OMZAB155-A165WTTV437ZDM
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-S4212-Neptune-Canister-Cleaner
ReviewerID: A165WTTV437ZDM
ReviewerName: Kevin Borowsky
Date: January 10, 2010
Helpful: 14 of 14
Rating: 5.0
Title: Premium vacuum quality
Content:
I purchased this vacuum for my wife whose older vacuum was starting to fall apart. My first source was consumer reports, and after researching their top rated canisters I was dismayed to see some of the negative comments by other reviewers. While these top rated models performed well, my other concern was quality and durability - something which consumer reports doesn't really focus on. If I am going to spend good money on a vacuum, I'd rather avoid anything made in China. The problem with the hoovers and Kenmoores are they use Chinese motors and components. There were too many reviews about the potential problems with cheap motors, and the fact that too many people complained about the cheap flimsy feel and the heavy weight.
I decided to go with the Miele Neptune with Turbo tool based on the reviews here and I was not disappointed! While the body is made of plastic, it is of high quality. The knobs, button and trim are like that of an Audi automobile. The main tube is made of metal, while the flexible portion is plastic. I can't really tell what the longevity of the plastic of these parts will be - but I am assuming they will be better than than the numerous complaints of flimsy and easy to break parts of the Kenmores and Hoovers.
Turning on the vacuum is like starting a jet engine. A nice gentle whine, and when fully revved it's remarkably quiet. Again, big advantage verses the mainstream models. A powerful 1200 watt motor and light weight makes this easy to use and effective at all the applications I've used it for - mainly hardwood and carpet. The turbo tool uses air to drive the brush and it has done a great job (just need to cut the hair that it collects from time time to time) especially on carpet, and works/sounds just like an electric powered model. 
All in all - a top quality product, excellent performance makes this a vacuum of choice. Plus it's made in Germany by a company that's been around for over 100 years. I personally rather avoid purchasing Chinese made products with lots of moving parts intended for long term use.