ID: B002LF10GA-R21D7JD3PCD8PB-A31SLTDISZ5MSB
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Aspire-AS1410-8913-11-6-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A31SLTDISZ5MSB
ReviewerName: Chooslyanne
Date: November 5, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Is it possible to be in love with a laptop?
Content:
Because I just may be. I'm not a computer expert, but here is a layperson's experience with this machine over the past 6 weeks. 
It's lightweight. I carry it all over the city as I trek about on my bike, and it is no burden. Many people have commented on its small size, but I have found the screen more than adequate. I often zoom in to 130% when typing Word documents, but that's no bother.
The battery lasts AT LEAST 6 hours. This seemed too good to be true in the specs, but it can even last longer if you're only doing basic word processing. The cable isn't that heavy, but it's still liberating to be able to use the machine throughout the day without needing to charge it.
The machine is very quick. I often have 8-10 windows open and multiple programs, and it switches between them effortlessly. It powers on and off more quickly than any PC I've ever owned.
It streams video. Granted, it can be a little choppy when I watch Parks and Recreation on NBC's website, but not choppy enough to dissuade viewing. I definitely didn't expect this little guy to be able to handle video. I just finished streaming a Netflix movie flawlessly.
The keyboard feels large for the size of the computer, and the touch pad works well. Aesthetically, it's sleek and sophisticated, the blue is nice, and it doesn't look like the cheap laptop it is.
The fans are silent (great for taking notes in class!), and the computer can sit on my lap or blankets indefinitely without overheating.
It is so cheap for the performance! I don't understand how Acer does it. This is NOT a netbook, this is a full blown, groovy laptop.
The only flaws I've found thus far: (1) the shiny screen can have a glare (2) the touch pad has a tendency to interpret my desire to move the mouse as a desire to instead scroll the page (I can probably deactivate this but haven't gotten around to it), (3) if I double click on a file name to open it, it ALWAYS gives me the typing box to rename the file, so I have to click on the icon, not the name itself, and (4) while it comes with a webcam, video chat can be laggy and (5) the speakers are too quiet. I like to watch movies while cooking in the kitchen, but cannot hear them well. With headphones on, however, the sound is more than sufficient. This are minor downsides. I use it at work and school. I'm so happy I bought it. Two of my major concerns were price and weight with the ability to handle basic functions. This exceeds what I'd hoped for and provides superb performance to boot.
FABULOUS.