ID: B002P3KMPI-R1AW8J72HMNZKT-APUQA996FH6U1
Category: Laptops
Product: UL50Vt-A1-Light-15-6-Inch-Black-Laptop
ReviewerID: APUQA996FH6U1
ReviewerName: L. Byer "byerfam"
Date: March 12, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: The Reason Why I Always Recommend Asus Now
Content:
Hi,
I really don't feel the need to waste my time on reviewing half the products I have because usually I am not satisfied and as much as I want to spread the word to everyone I know, I find myself with very little time to constantly write reviews so I save my breathe, or should I say "key strokes", for amazing products because I feel they deserve the praise and I can only hope that the companies are reading these reviews and keeps up the great work.
This machine I have only had for a day, but it is far from being my first laptop or first Asus computer.  This is my second Asus product and I know other friends that have Asus so I have enough experience overall to give a fair review.  I have the Asus Eee Pc1000H and well I will put it this way....it is a nice little machine, extremely stylish when compared with the other plastic garbage out there, and the screen is just absolutely gorgeous...don't take my word for it...try it!  The speakers were God awful (ironically it says "dolby digital" on the sticker that they slapped on it) but you don't buy a netbook because you are ready to roll down the street blaring your Asus Netbook sound system.  I have also had 3 Sony Vaios (which btw...NEVER EVER BUY SONY....unless you want to spend another $1000-$2000 in about a year and a half), 1 HP, 1 Lenovo, 2 Toshibas, and an Acer 18.4" (which again btw is probably the most amazing 18.4" laptop you will ever encounter in your life...try the 5.1 speakers that comes on it and you will thank me again later)
Now on to this Asus UL50VT.  I purchased this at Best Buy yesterday (3/11/10) for actually $729.99 (cheaper than Amazon oddly enough) and let me say I have absolutely no regrets on this purchase as I type this review on this very same laptop.  The screen, yes, can be crisper but I am truly fine with it and I do think it looks very nice, but you have to understand that the resolution appears differently to your eyes than a traditional lcd display so keep that in mind when thinking about it.  I promise you though that it looks good and I bet you will still love it as you play around with the unit.  The keyboard is the best on the market in my opinion.  I may say that Lenovo makes the best keyboards but you pay for that build quality.  If I had money, I think I would have a Lenovo for home and this laptop for the road....even though this computer can do it all...I love technology so I wouldn't mind having both manufacturers to enjoy.  The first thing I think of when anyone says the word "Asus" is "build quality."  Asus makes rock solid motherboards and over the past couple of years have been pushing to be the number one laptop manufacturer.  I was as skeptical as next guy about them pulling off such a difficult task, but just get your hands on an Asus before you pass judgment.  The chicklet keyboard is so easy to work off of, the kind of matte/rubbery texture to the palm rest is so elegant looking and really feels so good when you rest your palms on it and type on the computer.  The mousepad i need to given and standing ovation for.  I heard others talking about the stiffness of the buttons, but I really have not found that to be a problem and I rather have solid build quality then wondering when those buttons are going to snap off.  The mousepad itself is why I am clapping.  It is very responsive and silky smooth to the touch.  It is impossible to explain it until you try it for yourself.  It's the first time I ever felt anything this good, and I thought my Asus netbook was the best, but man was I wrong :).  The speakers are actually pretty darn good. I never expect much out of speakers, and when you are as spoiled as I am having Acer 5.1 speaker/subwoofer surround sound in the 18.4" laptop, nothing can ever top it.  The Acer has a 17.3" model that apparently has the same speakers...try them...you will never want to go back to another manufacturer again (if high quality speakers are a must for you)!  The quality of this Asus UL50VT is just so darn solid.  I pick up a Toshiba or a Dell and I feel like I have to gently touch it or it will snap in half, but this guy is solid at every corner.  The exterior styling is so classy and elegant that my friends and random strangers I run into ask me if this unit cost $1600.  Yes, I know I have only had it for a day, but I go to coffee shops daily and I am in med school so I do interact with many people and I already got 5 comments on this computer asking me what it is and where I got it.  Another thing that even worried me was how the weight would feel and how big it was because in the store, the battery wasn't on it so I couldn't truly feel the weight, and it was in some medal encasing so it was hard to see the thickness.  Simply put, this laptop DOES NOT feel like 5.5 lbs...I would say at max it feel likes 3.8 lbs.  The weight distribution must be so evenly distributed that you mind thinks it's lighter than it really is because the battery believe it or not is actually not that heavy.  I was surprised myself.  Plus, the unit is so slim and sleek that you can put it anywhere.
In summary...I really am in love with this laptop, and it is very rare for me to actually get excited about a product because I always find flaws.  I am averaging about 6 hrs and 42 min of battery because I have WiFi on, but I can push about 9hr 45min...maybe 10hr with WiFi off, but to achieve the 12 hrs you need to turn their Turbo 33 feature off, but I really don't care.  10 Hrs is fine for me at the moment and I rather have the faster boot ups.  Also the graphics card apparently is working very well.  I honestly have not even pushed it close to what it is capable of yet, but even with the dedicated graphics card turned off (Fn + Space Bar to switch between the 4 profiles), I have found this thing to be very speedy.  What I mean is that, I just returned an HP TM2 Table Pc the other day because it didn't work too well, and even THAT computer (with very similar specs minus the dedicated graphics card) wasn't as zippy and fast as this asus is.  I am telling you that the difference was VERY noticable.  
Overall...amazing machinery and Asus has convinced me that for years to come, they will always be my laptop manufacturer and that is final!  Only exception is for BIG laptops I will go with Acer for the amazing surround sound, but if Asus does something like that...then back to Asus I will go.  I have tried every single manufacturer out there and I have been so POed for years with the terrible quality of each one, but now I am happy to report that my problems have finally washed away.  Thank You Asus for another amazing product.
[...].....you can E-mail me with any questions and I will try to respond when I have time.  I put the e-mail there because I am showing that this is an honest review and I feel that a product like this deserves this kind of credit.  You will NOT find anything even close to this if you are looking for an all-in-one quality package.