ID: B002P3KVAY-R3J8R3UI8CQLNK-AIP9HAQPKRJ2H
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-AS1410-2039-11-6-Inch-Windows-Premium
ReviewerID: AIP9HAQPKRJ2H
ReviewerName: Eric Ebbinghaus "Eric Ebbinghaus"
Date: January 28, 2010
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: Acer Aspire 1410-2039 (black)
Content:
I would always much rather upload a video response than type out a long text one. The vid is about 8 minutes long and hopefully worth your time. It at least gives you a live look at the computer itself and some specs on it.
Unfortunately when I tried to upload to Amazon the file size was 11mb over the 100mb limit. I've already re-recorded once and instead of killing more of my day, I've decided to post a link to youtube where I uploaded it instead. 
Not sure why, but the review won't let me post the link to this computer. If you want to search youtube for my video review, here is the exact title of my video: Acer Aspire 1410-2039 Note (Net) Book Review. Or, if you prefer to find it via my channel, my username is pastorebbs. I ALSO POSTED A DIRECT LINK IN THE COMMENTS OF THIS REVIEW DIRECTLY BELOW.
For a quick-look, here are my list of pros and cons I covered in the video:
Cons:
Trackpad: Can be hard to identify from the palm-rest area of the case. Trackpad is smooth, case is textured in a "brushed" aluminum sort of way.
Speakers: Are all the way on the bottom on the case. Muffles the sound horribly when sitting on your lap.
Webcam: Is just a 1.3MB resolution. Makes for grainy chatting and ghost-trails with movement.
PROS: (Far outweigh the cons you'll notice)
Size/Weight Ratio: 11.6" OLED screen is compact, but substantially bigger than 10" netbooks. Weighs in at just 3.5 lbs.
Screen: OLED backlit screen is so sharp and intense I have to take the brightness down to 1/3 just to tolerate it.
Keyboard: It's full-sized as opposed to the 10" netbook keyboards being dwarfed due to the screen size.
Battery: Mine is still conditioning, but I believe I can pull over 6 hours out of this baby. It's a 6-cell, netbooks are 3-cell.
Keypad: While it's a con, it's also a pro due to it's multi-touch capabilities. Most functional is the enlarge/reduce motion
Webcam: Also a con, it's fully capable of skyping with the quality of MOST full-sized laptops. MOST PC laptops still have a 1.3mp
Performance: Celeron processor destroys all others, especially a netbooks atom. 2GB RAM, 250GB Hard Drive, Wireless, B, G, N, Windows 7 Home Premium. Netbooks are only available with Windows 7 Starter. Which is a much weaker version requiring upgrades.
Conclusion: This baby will do most everything you want a full-sized laptop to do and more, while maintaining the size/weight/functionality of today's tiny netbooks. I've only had it for two weeks, but I'm convinced this suckers solid construction and usability are Acer Aspire AS1410-2039 11.6-Inch Black Laptop (Windows 7 Home Premium)built to last and be carried for a while.