ID: B002QUZKYS-R1DIPNRDJ2E84T-A19FIMFMV2BYV4
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-AS5738Z-4111-15-6-Inch-Windows-Premium
ReviewerID: A19FIMFMV2BYV4
ReviewerName: Lizzy
Date: November 30, 2009
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: Wonderful buy all in all...
Content:
I've been itching to review this laptop ever since I bought it. 
I was one of the people who bought it on Amazon even before the release date. I was in need of a new laptop and was looking practically all over the internet for good deals on laptops. I almost picked a not so good laptop before I checked my email and found Amazon's message about new laptops available with windows 7. 
I checked at all the computers by ACER (yes, I specifically wanted an acer because I haven't ever had problems with the Acer computers I've used). I found this computer, read all the specs, and oh you know it.. I jumped on it! Was so eager to receive it that I paid for 2 day shipping. 
AT 479.99, this was a great deal, so i didn't at all mind paying the extra bucks for fast delivery. Amazon, true to their reputation, delivered this faster than I expected. 
I opened my laptop's box, and it was love at first sight. Turned it on, got on the internet, and started typing, and... that was when the problem started. 
The keyboard seemed nothing short of annoying! I am a pretty fast 'typer', and having to repeat practically everything i typed really got on my nerves. 
I immediately knew I had to call Acer, after all, this came with a one year warranty (thanks to God). The Acer customer service tried all they could to help me 'fix' this keyboard issue (like most reviewers on here have already mentioned), but all to no avail. I was eventually told to send in the laptop for repair. 
I had to spend additional bucks to send in my laptop to the Acer office in Texas. I wasn't getting mad though, cos apart from the typing issue, I had already fallen in love with everything about the laptop... and windows 7 was just so lovely (Well done Windows. Don't worry about what that Modern-day, hip dressing dude says about you..lol)
Anyhoo, I now have my laptop back, and the keyboard is working PERFECTLY! I think if I found this laptop at the current price Amazon is selling it, I'd close my eyes and still buy it. It's worth every penny (Then again, If you think about it... original price + 2 day shipping + gas price to staples to ship it back to acer + shipping fee kinda all equals this current price). And worry not if your keyboard is misbehaving, Just send it in back to ACER.
I know I've said enough already, but I just wanna add, the huge screen is a big plus when watching movies, videos, etc.
The numerical pad is a bonus. I thought it would hinder my typing, and take up unnecessary space, but it is not. 
The Webcam is Awesome.. so clear and works good with skype! The microphone is loud too, and speakers work great..
The mouse pad was slightly getting on my nerves, but all that resolved when i disabled the extra gestures, by clicking on Mouse from control panel. I also removed the plastic cover on the mouse pad (the one with the multi-gesture touch pad picture on it), and all these changes helped. 
Ok. That's about it.. :-)