ID: B002C745WS-RTM6061PH7AX0-A3RN8FVUQ1RTZ
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MC226LL-17-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A3RN8FVUQ1RTZ
ReviewerName: Dr. Goetz K. Oertel "Goetz von Berlichingen"
Date: November 1, 2009
Helpful: 29 of 35
Rating: 5.0
Title: Never back to PCs
Content:
This is my second Mac, an upgrade in size and disk capacity from my first Mac, a MacBook Pro 15 with Intel processor.  There was nothing whatever wrong with that old Mac - after 3 1/2 years I just needed more area on the screen for my work and did not mind the much greater disk capacity of the new model  The most telling aspect of my first Mac had been that it never "crashed", unlike generations of PCs I had used.  If I managed to do something really "naughty" to my Mac, it sometimes closed a software program - but without noticeable loss of data.  In stark contrast to my PC days, I never had to scramble to recover data.  The worst I ever did was to inadvertently delete some ancient email messages.  They proved easily recoverable from the external backup.  Yes, initially it took a few hours to re-learn keystrokes that are different on the Mac than on PCs.  I saved that back in no time, then received big dividends because my Mac never crashed.  It just always works as it is designed to do.
The most amazing experience with the new Mac was the transfer of my "stuff" from old to new Mac.  I went at it with some trepidation because it had taken seemingly endless hours to migrate "stuff" from old to new PCs.  By contrast, everything had migrated from old Mac to new Mac in less than one hour via firewire - and all worked perfectly.  By 'everything" I mean not just all data - files, records, contact information, photos, calendar, etc.- but also all software I had installed on the old Mac.  And, everything was exactly where and how I was used to it, and everything worked as it should on my brilliant and larger new Mac.  It is now backed up by even greater memory and processor speed, and runs on Snow Leopard - which is just as flawlessly reliable as the previous operating system but faster and more efficient, with a few neat new features strewn in.  
I can still hardly believe that it took years, no decades, before I got fed up and dumped PCs and their flawed operating systems and incompatible software and data bases for something that works.  A student in my family just "took the plunge" to Mac when she inherited my first Mac - she is thrilled.  Before that I had loaned it to friends - decades long PC users - who promptly made me a nice offer for it and who have since bought new Macs from the local Apple Store.  They are extremely conservative and frugal folks - but it did not take them long to figure out that one Mac every decade that always works is better than a new PC every three years that frequently "crashes".  Macs serve their owners and serve them well.  PCs work sometimes and expect their owners to serve and service them..  Who is master and who slave?  There is never a doubt with a Mac!