ID: B002P3KVBI-R2EJL6EWAJ6KOL-A2F1QVGIJTZFJJ
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-AS1410-2285-11-6-Inch-Windows-Premium
ReviewerID: A2F1QVGIJTZFJJ
ReviewerName: K. Arnold
Date: November 28, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great netbook - very happy
Content:
I have the "identical cousin" to this netbook:  The Gateway EC1435.  Gateway, Acer and eMachines are all the same company now.  The Acer AS1410 and Gateway's EC series are the same netbooks with different labels.  I liked the packaing of the Gateway a little better than the Acer.  This is a trivial item, but Gateway has a nice chrome Gateway "badge" on the lid versus Acers larger logo.  Otherwise they are identical.
My first week with the Gateway EC1435 has been an absolute pleasure.   I upgraded from a Lenovo S10, which I really liked.  It got me hooked on netbooks and their great portability.  I wanted a larger screen and more poweful processor than the Atom.  After researching all of the available options with the 11-12" screen, I settled on the Gateway/Acer because of the HDMI (haven't used it yet, but plan to) and the SU2300 dual core processor along with Win & Premium 64-bit.  I am very pleased with the performance of this netbook.  It doesn't feel anything like the Atom-based netbook I had used for nearly a year.  
The larger screen really makes a difference.  The 10.1" screens are OK if portability/light weight are your top priorities.  You can get by with them; you have to scroll around more with them.  With the 11.6" screen, I feel I get a much better web experience since I can get more of a web page on the screen and I can "shrink" it even more to give me a lot of image on the screen at any given time.
My biggest complaint is the glossy case/cover that all of the manufacturers seem to favor these days.  It is a fingerprint magnet.  My Lenovo had a flat black cover like their ThinkPads, and it was much better at hiding fingerprints and smudges.  But for the difference in performance and the bigger screen, I can live with it.
If you are comparing 10.1" netbooks and the 11.6" netbooks, I think getting the more powerful Acer/Gateway is a no-brainer if the $400 is in your budget.  I am really pleased with this netbook.