ID: B0026FCKA0-R2USGHD5LKKQDS-A3EQXYIGJPI497
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D5000-3-5-5-6G-55-200mm-Vari-angle
ReviewerID: A3EQXYIGJPI497
ReviewerName: DC Machead "DC Machead"
Date: January 10, 2010
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Amazing Camera
Content:
My prior DSLR was a 3 year old Canon Digital Rebel XT--it took OK pictures, but nothing to call home about. A recent visit by a family member yielded some phenomenal pictures of my son. Before my nephew left, I borrowed his Nikon to take some pictures and they came out well, too. Then I got to thinking...everyone I know that takes good pictures uses a Nikon and my decision was made.
What struck me about this kit is the completeness and the quality of it. I purchased the 2-lens kit from Costco--it came with a Nikon case, a DSLR book and two DVDs on DSLR photography. I think it's a wise decision on Nikon's part to market its equipment with DVDs on how to use it because people will be left with the impression that Nikon equipment is better based on the results they get from it...a little education goes a long way.
The camera has a solid feel despite having a plastic case. The adjustable LCD screen usually stays flat on the back of my camera, but I have used it when photographing in crowds. It's also nice for environmental pictures because you can see what's going on in the viewfinder without having to draw attention to yourself setting up a shot. The menu system is very good and allows you to get to the controls very quickly compared to the menu system on my older Canon Digital Rebel XT. What is really nice is the picture viewing system on the camera--you can quickly make your way through your pictures and delete the ones you don't want without having to press all sorts of buttons.
Neophytes will also appreciate the help system on the camera. With every camera I've previously owned, I had to carry the manual around in the bag in order to remember how to alter all the settings and what the sometimes cryptic icons mean. On the Nikon, you can just press the help button on any setting and it'll give you a quick explanation of what a particular setting does. It also gives you example pictures for the various ISO settings, which makes life a lot easier when trying to set your camera up for a shot.
The autofocus is fast for a prosumer camera, the lenses are sharp, and the focus settings are very easy to manipulate. If you're looking for a nice DSLR to get your feet wet with, this is a wonderful camera. The only downside is the autofocus motor is built into the Nikon lenses...you're married to AF-S lenses, so if you expect to take your photography to higher levels after this one, you risk the investment in your lenses. For me, this camera is perfect and has opened up a new world for me in terms of where I can take good pictures.