ID: B002P3KMVC-R287CHLGS0WF7V-A2S8GXMJ8WCCEQ
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30A-X5-Light-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A2S8GXMJ8WCCEQ
ReviewerName: Jeff Cheap
Date: January 9, 2010
Helpful: 9 of 18
Rating: 1.0
Title: Nowhere near 12-hour battery life - NO customer service
Content:
I REALLY wanted to like this computer after having a piece of garbage Gateway laptop that died after 13 months. I've had it for about 3 weeks now, but this notebook is not as advertised. "12 Hours of Battery Life? Sure, if you don't turn it on, the battery will last 12 hours, otherwise you would be lucky to get 6 hours out of it. Of course that's better than most other notebooks, BUT IT IS NOT 12 HOURS as it so prominently says on the Amazon.com website. I'm thinking about contacting the FTC with a complaint over this - it is just not right to flat-out lie about the battery life. Then there is the matter of the accidental damage warranty. I mailed in the "ASUS Accidental Damage Warranty (ADW) Registration Card" to the address on the card - it was returned to me 2 weeks later by the post office with a yellow sticker on it "FORWARD TIME EXP RTN TO SEND: ASUS COMP INTL - NOTEBOOK WARRANTY 800 FREMONT CA 94539-6105". Not only did ASUS move and fail to include the new address on the warranty card for a brand-new (and newly-released) computer, they also failed to re-new their forwarding address with the post office. So I tried to register it online, and apparently succeeded as the ASUS website told me to print out the confirmation that I would receive soon by email and mail it along with my warranty card. 4 days later and I still have not received this registration email. I tried to register it again online, this time signing up as a member and a VIP member by registering my notebook with ASUS, but first it asked me for a "Contract Code" and "Password" that are supposedly on the warranty card (they are not), and now the website tells me that my computer is not eligible for the accidental damage warranty and that I need to contact the retailer to BUY the extra protection. ASUS is either providing false information on their and Amazon's website, or on the product description and warranty card that came with my notebook - both clearly say that this computer is eligible for the one-year accidental damage warranty. I have no idea whether their online customer service is ever open and it is definitely not today since it's Saturday, but I'm so disgusted with the notebook and the extremely poor/impossible warranty registration procedure that I'm just giving up.
If the notebook was exactly what Amazon and ASUS say that it is, I would be first in line to give it 5-stars and a glowing review, but it is not. I feel like I've been cheated, and the impossible registration procedure along with the not-as-advertised battery life prompted me to write this review. If I had it to do all over again, I would look elsewhere for a notebook computer.