ID: B002PAQXAE-R2HIYX792VOUKH-AB8CQ5QS5OB6C
Category: Laptops
Product: UL20A-A1-Light-12-1-Inch-Silver-Laptop
ReviewerID: AB8CQ5QS5OB6C
ReviewerName: Mike Trojanowski
Date: December 1, 2009
Helpful: 47 of 47
Rating: 5.0
Title: A THIN AND LIGHT THAT CONTINUES TO BE JUST RIGHT.
Content:
REVIEW UPDATED ON 2-28-10
 
I've had this laptop for 3 MONTHS now and my 5-STAR initial impression continues to remain the same. My comments below have been updated but essentially haven't changed. About 2 months after I received the laptop though, I noticed a rather large dead pixel or small group of them right in the upper middle of the display. I contacted ASUS directly and YEP they replaced the screen free of charge including shipping and the whole process was completed in one week. The display is now perfect and kudos to ASUS for handling the issue so quickly. 
1.	LOOK & SIZE -  The light-colored silver brushed aluminum lid is a fine complement to its ultra thin profile. It weighs only 3.3 lbs and doesn't feel as back heavy as some other netbooks/ultraportables that have 6-cell batteries. Quality in design, fit and finish are quite evident throughout. 
2.	SIGHT & SOUND - When I powered the ASUS UL20A up for the first time I was impressed with the display's noticeable increase in brightness and vivid contrasting colors. The High Definition LED-backlit screen really will make a pleasurable improvement in your viewing. 
The front bottom positioned Altec Lansing speakers have a lot of volume at least for my ears and the Realtek HD Audio control panel offers 13 equalizer settings to satisfy your personal tone preferences. I keep the volume at the 75% mark because that's usually plenty loud for me. 
Much has been said about glossy screens giving off glare from the sun through indoor windows and overhead lights. Frankly I thought this would bother me more than it does but the bother is hardly anything at all with this laptop. Of course everyone's lifestyle is different and what may be good for one person may not be good for another. My lifestyle doesn't require me to use my laptop outdoors and using it indoors imposes little inconvenience for me to turn the laptop or lid slightly away from the offending overhead light or sunlight. 
3. TOUCH & NAVIGATION - The chiclet-style keyboard is a breeze to type on. The gaps between the keys provide both room and better viewing of the separate keys, particularly with the keys being a charcoal black color and the deck being a contrasting silver color. I can now navigate easily and comfortably using the touchpad but had to spend too much time initially I thought adjusting to the rather small touchpad that caused my husky fingers to sometimes go out-of-bounds. I use 2-finger scrolling which I personally prefer. Note: If you want to do 2-finger scrolling, you will have to install the generic, but more advanced Synaptics software directly from their website. Be sure to download the 64-bit Windows version. Installing it was easy but you will need an external mouse since the touchpad will be disabled during the install.
Lastly, I found my laptop to be amazingly COOL to my touch much unlike some other laptops that feel uncomfortably warm especially on the bottom-side. Also, I NEVER HEARD THE FAN come on even once to keep this laptop so pleasantly cool.
4. SPEED & STAYING POWER - This laptop is FAST. I will admit I installed another 2 gigs of memory that probably helped improve its speed. I may open and close my laptop about 6 times a day and most of the time I just put it in hibernation mode which backs up your open applications to the hard drive and then shuts down completely causing no further battery drain as sleep mode does. Startup from hibernation for me takes around 20 second - VERY FAST. Also, opening and closing programs in day-to-day use is quicker as well. I didn't do timings here but intuitively I know they open and close faster.
     I use the Balanced Power Setting option offered by Windows 7 instead of using one of the 4 discreet power levels offered by ASUS. The Balanced power Plan gives you added horsepower when you need it and less horsepower when you're just cruising on the highway. With this setting, I get close to 6 hours of battery life that I'm happy with. Your mileage will depend on your own usage & brightness settings.  
5. SUGGESTION - Preloaded on your laptop will be Trend Micro Virus Protection that after a free trial period concludes, will cost you. Some folks suggested removing Trend Micro off your laptop right away and replace it with Microsoft Security Essentials that can be downloaded directly from the Microsoft website. That's what I did and I'm glad I did it. This anti-virus and anti-spyware software is FREE. That's right - FREE from Microsoft and it's surprisingly unobtrusive and very easy to use.
6. CONCLUSION - After a fairly long period of adjustment, I can now navigate easily and comfortably with the smallish trackpad but I still think a larger touchpad would provide a more pleasurable navigating experience. 
Clearly though there is a lot to like with this compact, thin & light. I think the laptop's 12.1 inch size is perfect and I appreciate its light weight, sleekness and the fact it's always quiet and cool to my touch. The display is beautiful and bright, the keyboard is a pleasure to type on, battery life is quite generous and the performance it offers is worthy of laptops costing more, perhaps much more. After 3 months of use, I STILL LOVE IT.