ID: B002MUAEX4-R3SFMZ8TDLANN7-A3M9XAATBW6UNK
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Panasonic-DMC-GF1-Four-Thirds-Interchangeable-Aspherical
ReviewerID: A3M9XAATBW6UNK
ReviewerName: hellfire
Date: February 24, 2010
Helpful: 23 of 23
Rating: 5.0
Title: compared with LX3, G10, E-P1, dslr
Content:
i own the canon G10, LX3/D-lux4 (and a canon EOS 1Ds & SD790IS), and spent a LOT of time with the olympus E-P1 in various camera stores manhandling it with different lenses.  i chose the GF1 20mm kit based on
1) DSLR-like image quality in stealthy compact form. Granted my 1Ds is 7 years old now, but it was the best camera of its era.  the GF1's files are better than the 1Ds with more ISO options and low-light capability (i took a lot of test shots in camera stores and checked out the files at home before purchasing).  Dxomark would disagree, but on my computer screen, the GF1 is better.  i think a lot has to be said for the latest and greatest noise reduction algorithms, and for a lighter anti-aliasing filter on the sensor.  i'm also pretty sure i can sneak the GF1 into concerts etc where pro-level cameras are outlawed.  it just looks like a big LX3.
2) Shallower depth of field than LX3/G10.  I love making dreamy pictures with nice bokeh and subject isolation (my favorite lens on the 1Ds is the 50mm/f.14, and i almost always shoot wide open), and it's tragic that you cannot create those pictures in a small form factor - the closest would be a Leica M9 with 50mm summilux, if you have $10000 to spare.  the GF1 + 20mm 1.7 is a good compromise, and not much worse than an APS-C camera in terms of depth of field increase.  In other words, the samsung NX10, sigma and sony interchangeable lens compacts will likely not have substantially shallower DOF.
3) snappy autofocus.  everyone claiming the E-P1/P2's autofocus is on par with the GF1 is smoking something, or aren't sensitive to AF speed (e.g. landscape/portrait shooters).  the GF1 focuses faster than my 1Ds does, way faster than the E-P1, and offers pretty good control over the AF point.  this is critical for street shooting, where you have just a second to compose, focus and take a shot.  the E-P1 just felt sluggish, even when i put the 20mm/1.7 on it.  it felt slower than the LX3/Dlux4 and even the G10.  the GF1 takes pictures when i expect it to, even with focus-priority...i couldn't say the same for my time with E-P1.
4) user interface.  although a life long canon shooter, the LX3/dlux4 introduced me to panasonic's UI, and i've found it fairly logical and easy to navigate.  almost everything is just a few buttons away.  in the time i spent with olympus i was completely confused.  
5) incredible low light performance.  the 1.7 is surprisingly sharp wide open if your subject is distant enough.  this means i can street shoot at about ISO400 at dawn or dusk, 1/100 or 1/250 shutter sometimes to stop motion.  ISO 1600 is amazingly clean to my eye, and beats ISO1250 on my 1Ds.
6) lighter than E-P1.  ostensibly they're about the same size/weight, but the E-P1 just felt heavier & bulkier to me.
7) handling.  a bit of an x-factor.  it feels good in hand.  although tricky i can use it with gloves.  it starts up almost immediately, whereas the E-P1 runs its sensor cleaning.  the shutter gives a satisfying chunk.  i leave it around neck & shoulder without a lens cap and i can quickly shoot from the waist or bring it up to eye level for composing.  it just feels good to use.  it begs to be used every day.  i think if the GF1 didn't exist, i'd have saved up for the leica M9 and 50/1.4.  the gf1 feels like what the M10 should be (except with a sensor half the size).
8) lens compatibility.  there's an adaptor for practically every lens system out there to micro-4/3, including leica M, R, nikon, canon, etc.  i look forward to trying my canon 50mm/1.4 on it (effectively turning it into a 100mm f/1.4!!).  you lose autofocus and perhaps aperture control (modern lenses use electronically controlled apertures), but if you're a rangefinder kind of person, you won't miss it.
9) sharper rear display. the low-res LCD on the E-P1 is just not good enough.  i like to adjust/check focus manually, and the high res screen on the GF1 makes it easy.  the E-P1 has to zoom in more to confirm sharpness, and it's just not as usable (imagine being forced to always zoom 10x in the moment you touch the manual focus ring - you have no idea where you are.  GF1 zooms 5x with an option to go 10x).
Things that you have to compromise:
1) no in-body image stabilization like on E-P1.  in practice, i don't think this matters for my kind of shooting.  the tele lenses that need it will have it for panasonic, but IBIS doesn't help if you're trying to freeze motion, such as in street shooting.
2) size/weight.  it's not as pocketable as the LX3/dlux4.  but so much better than lugging an SLR around. i can keep this on me all day and not notice it or want to take it off.
3) DOF.  the shallower depth of field can work against you if you need to stop down to get more things sharp in lower light.  there are shots that are more easily taken with the LX3/dlux4 than this or an SLR.  recall that the LX3 has an f/2.0 at wide angle, but because of the roughly 4x smaller sensor, the DOF is much deeper.
4) prime lens.  i don't think this is bad, but today's consumer may need some adjustment.  my DSLR always had a 50mm on it.  zoom with your feet.
in summary i'm selling my G10, some of my canon lenses, keeping the LX3/dlux4 and GF1.