ID: B002ONCBX0-R2BX03VLY1EA9W-ADRI2L1OUKG0A
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV6-1360US-15-6-Inch-Espresso-Laptop
ReviewerID: ADRI2L1OUKG0A
ReviewerName: C. Holliday
Date: February 23, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 1.0
Title: Really Bad Ergonomics
Content:
I've had many laptops over the years but this is probably the worst I've ever used. HP clearly put form over function when they mis-engineered this line of notebooks. The keyboard is the absolute worst. To start with, the keys are flat so it looks cool but you get no tactile feedback telling you if you are centered on the keys until your fingers go over the edge of a key. Second, the keys are shiny so they are impossible to read at an angle if you are laying down with the computer on your chest or stomach. Third, the addition of the number pad might make accounts happy but for the rest of us that don't use the number pad it shoves the keys we do use off to the left of center from the screen. This also moves the extremely shiny and finger print ridden mouse pad off of center. The mouse pad also has no separation between the pad and the buttons so if you hit the button high and get the edge of the pad your mouse jumps towards the bottom of the screen right as the click event happens resulting in random clicks where you don't want them, sometimes with really bad results like sending and email you weren't ready to send. Probably the worst design decision that will lead to repeated repairs is the power adapter which plugs into the side of the computer and sticks out about 2 inches. With it sticking out that far it acts like a lever so whenever you bump the plug on something it's putting tons of pressure on the connector and with it sticking out that far it gets bumped ALL THE TIME. It makes it virtually impossible to actually use the use the laptop on your lap. I'm guessing they made the plug this long because it's common for power adapter wires to fray and break right at the plug but all they've done is moved where it will fray out an inch and created a new failure point at the connector inside the computer. What are they going to do next, stick the entire power cord inside a 2 inch PVC pipe? Hmmm, maybe an L shaped plug that's flush to the computer case and can rotate freely in the connector might work but that might add half a penny to the cost, can't have that. There are also little lights all over the laptop; the power button, the speaker on/off, the volume control and the network on/off are all lights right under the monitor which to me is visually distracting. There is also a great big HP Logo on the lid that serves no purpose other than advertising for HP and wasting your battery charge. The entire laptop is also one gigantic fingerprint magnet, it's nice and shiny in the show room but because of this it always looks like you were eating greasy pizza or something the last time you used it. My last gripe is the wide-screen monitor but this isn't specific to HP, it's almost impossible to find a laptop without one anymore. Wide-screens are a great fit for watching movies but I prefer to watch movies on my TV, however, wide-screens totally suck for pretty much everything else. When reading and writing documents you don't want to see wider lines, you want see more lines or to be able to see both a picture and the related text at the same time. I thought the bigger screen would be better but my old 14.1 inch screen was more than an inch taller than this 15.6 inch screen and that extra inch really makes a big difference to me doing my job. In my opinion wide-screens are the absolute worst thing to happen to laptops for people that actually do all of their work on a laptop. I've had this computer for a month now and the thought of having to work on this for another 3 years makes me sick, I absolutely hate it.