ID: B002L6HDRY-R1A3Q3U92B02T9-AOALFEV35O5NO
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Orange-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: AOALFEV35O5NO
ReviewerName: tek chi
Date: November 8, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 4.0
Title: Absolute pleasure to use
Content:
Q&A Time:
Is the video as good as Flip or Kodak ?  no. I'm mentioning this because Jobs pitched it as a Flip contender.
Is it fun to use?  oh yeah!!! Flip and Kodak, step aside! This is Apple territory. If you've never touched the new nanos, you should check one out. Once you do, you can't put it down though ;)
Do I need an iron fist? No, among the sub-$200 camcorders I've tested, the iPod handles motion and shakes the best. Are you listening Kodak?
Can I shoot at night? Yes, but the videos make you wonder if you are wearing yellow glasses! White balance sucks :(
How long can I shoot video with one recharge? Less than an hour
Is the lens position a big deal? No, if you hold it exactly as shown in Apple's ads. See product details picture above. Believe me, every other way you hold, you either drop the iPod or shoot video of your fingers.
Does it taste like a candy bar? No, my 2 year old daughter says so! Its so thin, she put it in her mouth and bit it! Thanks to the excellent body, my iPod survived :)
How's the radio? You got to try it to believe it! Apple has changed how you listen to radio.
Can I wash it? Water Damage Update: I lost and found my iPod  in my washer after a full wash cycle. Luckily I had a silicon cover on it. I did not see any water on the screen or anywhere else. Even shaking it didn't bring any water out. Still followed the rice idea and left mine for 4 days in a bag of rice. Turned it on and works like nothing ever happened! SO psyched! I even downloaded all the videos I'd shot before the wash. Don't give up guys, just wait longer. A week without your iPod is still better than without one forever!
As you might have guessed by now I use this like a camcorder. So I haven't explored much else and may never do.