ID: B002TSHFDG-R2NTD8C6WF943E-A188QVMPRSDSGX
Category: Laptops
Product: Fujitsu-M2011-Mini-Notebook
ReviewerID: A188QVMPRSDSGX
ReviewerName: FitnessFreak
Date: February 3, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Nice!
Content:
I've looked at specs from all the top named companies and happened upon a blog that mentioned a netbook by fujitsu.  I actually had a dell on order, but after extending the delivery date a second time I cancelled the dell order.  The fujitsu turned out to be cheaper than the dell and some things are standard that I added to the dell such as bluetooth.  
I ordered it from [...] and was not thrilled that it only color option is red.  I am pleased to report that the red color is not an overpowering hot red, but more like a richer candy apple red.  If that makes any sense, but the red is a pleasing shade.  I also ordered the 2 gig of memory to bump it up.  One thing of notice right away was how vivid the screen is.  For a 10-inch I do not feel as if I've lost much screen volume.  
It came with windows 7 starter.  I found that I could purchase the full version via my student credentials so my new netbook is now running windows 7 home.  The keys on the netbook are nice size and I don't find it at all a problem to type.  I am a typist though and find it a bit of a nuisance that the right shift key placement is a bit far.  I find that I need to look down to make sure I'm not hitting the up arrow that's right next to the shift key.  The touchpad is very smooth and responsive.  The mouse keys are a bit firm and have a hard click noise when pressed.  Sound is impressive coming from this little machine.  I've put movies that I had on my phone on the hard drive as well as lots of music.  I downloaded my favorite player, vlc, and video playback is very smooth.  I've also installed msoffice 2003 using an external dvd player and the newer 2010 beta which I downloaded.  I'm connected through wifi which works well too.  No dropped signal in any room of my home.  The battery is quite well too with a charge lasting about six hours which word processing use and lite web browsing.
All in all this is a great sturdy laptop which should not be ignored when considering a netbook.