ID: B002JPITY8-R1ZR4VV0SSI55C-A35PRI5ZI97WVZ
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Video-MP3-Player-Platinum
ReviewerID: A35PRI5ZI97WVZ
ReviewerName: C. Weber "Chuck W."
Date: September 15, 2009
Helpful: 37 of 42
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Digital Media Player!
Content:
Having my entire CD collection on the computer, I was looking for a portable player that would interface easily with my PC and was not complicated to use.  The era of the portable CD player ended long ago, so it was time for me to get updated.  I received an e-mail earlier today (9-15-09) from the Windows 7 team blog which discussed the new Zune software and its optimization with Windows 7,  as I am currently running Windows 7 Ultimate as a beta tester for MicroSoft.  I picked up the Zune HD 16GB unit at a local retailer who just got them in this afternoon.  I have been thoroughly impressed with the unit thus far.  
Once the software has been installed and updated, it is easy to use and  fairly self-explanatory.  The software identifies all your music, video, and picture files which you can easily drag and drop onto the Zune player icon to transfer to the unit.  Within 10 minutes I had 5 albums, 3 videos and 4 trip picture folders transfered to my Zune with a few clicks.  They play great!  I downloaded a couple of tunes utilizing the 14 day free trial zune pass, and the HD radio is awsome.  It seeks and finds local stations quickly.  The wireless (802.11 WiFi) sync works well through my network here at the house so I can sync to both my PC's, and I think my PS3 as well (I have not tried that yet). 
The WiFi connection is also great to access the internet on the unit, and I was able to access my favorite pages (My Yahoo, Amazon, Facebook etc)quickly and easily.  I particularly like the large screen.  The touch controls are intuitive and easy with great colors and graphics. As I indicated earlier, the video reproduction is awsome and I was able to set one of my own pictures as the background immediately!  I like the fact that there is no spinning hard drive in the Zune HD, flash is much better.  For those who say it does not have enough storage, I say over 4000 songs is more than enough and 5 hours of HD video is quite sufficient for most users.  I give the Zune HD 16GB  ***** 5 Stars *****