ID: B002M3SOCE-R6NDJZA1N52C6-A2RFNIOYR9YO69
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-touch-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A2RFNIOYR9YO69
ReviewerName: ArchAngel21x
Date: October 16, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: The Best iPod Ever
Content:
I owned an 8 gig 1st Gen iPod Touch and recently upgraded to a 64 Gig 3rd Gen for more space. I was happy with the 1st Gen model but I simply ran out of space. 64 Gig is a lot, and should be enough for many people. 
The design of this iPod is slick. It's very thin, very simple in design, but it does so much. It comes with a handful of apps and does so much more than play music. I use the clock app to set multiple alarms to remind me of time sensitive tasks at work. I also enjoy using the notepad app so I never need to carry pen and paper with me. With the ability to add apps, the iPod Touch is like a mini computer. I also noticed a considerable speed increase over the 1st Gen model because of the faster processor. With the Barnes & Noble eBook reader App, I also find the iPod to be a worthy competitor to the eKindle, although some people may want a bigger screen for reading books. I also enjoy the Facebook app as well as the Pandora app for streaming audio. 
One thing misleading about this product is the fact that it comes with a voice recording app. Unlike the iPhone, it does not have an audio input device, so you'll get a no microphone error message if you try to use it. I am a little disappointed by the fact Apple still uses the very scratch prone metal on the back. I was also disappointed that the 3rd gen model did not get the same camera the iPhone 3GS has. Last, not all web pages will render correctly, despite Steve Jobs bragging about the fact that it uses a full fledged browser, because the flash plugin is not available for it.  
Overall, this is not just the greatest iPod ever, it's the greatest portable music player and best PDA in my opinion. With the app store and iTunes, it offers something for everyone.