ID: B002OJ9WVS-RA999IS6GUDB3-A2ASWUSU4PBEKI
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-S4212-Canister-SBD450-3-Combination
ReviewerID: A2ASWUSU4PBEKI
ReviewerName: vivid_blue
Date: November 8, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Delightful!
Content:
If you had told me last week I would be singing the praises of a vacuum cleaner, I would have said you were crazy.  Our ten-year-old Hoover Wind Tunnel finally died last week, and since we have a fluffy Samoyed who is shedding like crazy, I needed a replacement right quick.  The Hoover had been a workhorse, but I'd been hoping for a new vac for some time, since the old one was falling apart and was heavy as a tank to boot.   Enter the Miele Polaris.
I checked reviews here, on Epinions, [...] and various customer forums (including allergy sufferer boards), and all of them recommended the Miele vacs.  The Polaris completely lives up to the hype.  It's light (supposedly 10 lbs. for the canister, about 18 with wand and attachments by my scale), maneuverable, great at filtering dust, and extremely quiet.  I have asthma but even if I stand in front of the exhaust I can breathe easily - no wheezing after cleaning as I did with our old vac.    Incredibly quiet even at max power: my baby doesn't wake up while I'm cleaning, and we can still hear the doorbell or TV over the hum of the motor.
I did get the Turbobrush as an optional attachment.  The combo tool that comes with the vac is good for 75-80% of our cleaning (we have hardwood floors, tile in the kitchen, three rooms with area rugs), but there are just some stubborn bits of carpet with dog hair that need the brushing action.  Note, the Polaris is basically identical to the Neptune (next model up), except the Neptune comes with the Turbobrush, so assess prices accordingly.  You can also buy an optional HEPA filter, which will be my next add-on.  (Even without the HEPA it's great, but since it's allergy season I like the idea of the extra clean). 
Really love my new vac - I'm by no means a clean freak, but if I have to be vacuuming, the Polaris definitely makes it enjoyable!