ID: B002PHM0GS-R3ORL7A3YZ9V5W-A1FMU4CJLIDHR9
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VGN-FW510F-16-4-Inch-Windows-Premium
ReviewerID: A1FMU4CJLIDHR9
ReviewerName: Jaffrey W. Ali "Relentless Pursuit of Technology"
Date: January 8, 2010
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent Notebook! But beware of Sony Support!!!!
Content:
First of all I currently own 4 Sony Vaio Computers:
1. Vaio FW (upgraded to Windows 7 Professional): Just a fantastic combination of performance and build quility. True workhorse. HPs and Dell look dull compared to the sleek and elegant FW.
2. Vaio X (64GB SSD + Verizon broadband): Light as a feather, fantastic design, leaves all other netbooks in the dust, Mac Air looks boring compared to this. Performance is significantly faaster than the air as well. Includes VGA and Full Windows 7 Home Premium (which means it comes with the fantastic Windows Media Center). Includes 14 hour extended battery. Even with the extended battery the X looks sleeker than the Mac Air!
3. Vaio TP: I paid around $2000 for this excellent home theatre PC that does eveything. Again, very sleek and excellent performance.
4. Vaio LT All in one: I paid around $2000 for this, again an excellent all in one, better than an iMac in every way possible. Better audio (includes a built in sub woofer!), Blu Ray player and includes Vista Media Center + HD TV Tuner!
So what's the problem? For both the TP and LT computers which are Vista Sony support refuses to upgrade the graphics drivers to support windows 7. This means I can NEVER upgrade these from Vista to Windows 7. Sony makes great hardware, no question. But when it comes to support they are the worse. So IF you are budget conscious in any way or need your computer to be future proof for more than a couple of years NEVER EVER consider a Sony. This is coming from a big Sony supporter. Unlike Apple who back their hardware, Sony does NO such thing. You're on your own with Sony. 
The FW is a great notebook and so far has worked flawlessly for me, but recent history tells me that Sony will probably not support it, now that the F series is out.