ID: B002NEGTTW-R3TJ6XPZV3IU2D-A1AE19C8B4BV6V
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-EOS-7D-Body-Only
ReviewerID: A1AE19C8B4BV6V
ReviewerName: R. Proulx "Traveller"
Date: January 21, 2010
Helpful: 9 of 9
Rating: 5.0
Title: The 7D Truly is Designed for Extreme Environments
Content:
I just returned from a shoot in one of the most remote and inhospitable places in the world. It is called the Chaco Impenetrable and is located in the far north of Argentina. The climate there only knows two extremes. Either there is high humidity, rain, and mud, or it is bone dry with clouds of dust blowing almost constantly. Temperatures there often exceed 50 degrees Celsius. As it is summer now, I was either covered in dust or mud. I personally recorded a high temperature of 44 degrees Celsius. My major concerns were with the camera's weather sealing, its high temperature shooting capability, and the camera's nighttime auto focus capability.
According to the camera's literature, extreme high temperatures can in principle slow the camera's operation or even shut the camera down if the temp gets too high. I never noticed even a slight degradation in the camera's performance even when shooting at high speed. This includes the day that the temperature reached 44 degrees Celsius at about 4PM. 
I shot in the rain, but not during the torrential downpours. I just couldn't bring myself to take such a chance. There seems to have been no penetration of water or humidity into the body. The view finder never once fogged over.
More than the rain, I was worried about the dust clouds. When the rain ends, the sun's intense heat requires very little time to dry the ground. In short order the mud turns to dust. As always, I was quite careful to never change lenses when conditions were extreme. Instead, I shot principally with my 24 to 105L lens. Therefore, I was principally concerned with dust penetrating the camera's sealing. After I returned, I performed a very careful inspection of the camera and found zero penetration into the camera body. Every camera that I have ever owned, all Canons, including my old and venerable Canon New F1, allowed dust to enter the viewfinder. The 7D's dust sealing is nothing short of astounding.
As there is no electricity there, nighttime shooting is wholly dependent either on flash or available moonlight. I traveled with minimal equipment in order to keep weight to a minimum. I left my 580 Speedlite at home and shot only with the onboard flash. During my time there, there was little to no available moonlight. I was therefore quite concerned about the camera's ability to focus at night. 
One night, I encountered an apasanka. An apasanka is a sort of tarantula except that it is about two to three times larger, runs almost as fast as a man, and can jump to attack. Its venom counts as one of the most fatal on the planet. I was able to run in an open area and get about five feet in front of it. We were head to head. As the situation occurred rather suddenly and the danger was great, my courage was adequate to only get one shot before discretion became the better part of valor and I jumped out of its way. I shot the photo in complete auto mode. The lens was able to achieve proper focus within less than two seconds and the flash light emitted exposed the shot perfectly. What a great photo.
In my opinion, Canon's weather sealing claims are if anything, far too modest. I plan on an early winter shoot in Torres del Paine, in the far south of Chile, and am looking forward to testing its cold weather capability as well. The 7D is by far the best camera I have ever used in extreme environments.
Update: After showing my photo to a friend who collects tarantulas, and also doing a little research myself, I would like to add/correct the following. "Apasanka" the word the local Criollo and Wichi in the Chaco Impenetrable use for this creature, is simply the generic Quechua/Quichua word for tarantula. This particular tarantula, which my friend once owned, is either called the Chaco Golden Knee Tarantula or Chaco Golden Striped Tarantula. Its scientific name is Grammastola Aureostriata. It is the largest of the known tarantulas here and can reach 8 inches in length. Although the locals informed me that its venom is incredibly dangerous, my friend informed me that its venom, although it can be fatal, rarely ever leads to death in humans. He affectionately referred to his former pet as "muy amistosa," or `very friendly.'