ID: B002PK155M-R2DP6WBLMOKI3G-A3PXG0KQIYUTBB
Category: Laptops
Product: Lenovo-Ideapad-U-350-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A3PXG0KQIYUTBB
ReviewerName: Pooja Joshi "Gadget enthusiast"
Date: November 2, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 13
Rating: 4.0
Title: Disappointed in Amazon but happy with product
Content:
I am very eager to review this product but cannot do so as I have yet to receive it. 
I pre-ordered it, as the Amazon website listed Oct 22 as availability date. That date passed and there was no communication from Amazon. After inquiring with them, they gave me a new estimate. 
Finally the computer shipped on the new estimated date, but it has yet to arrive. Amazon did not have the emotional intelligence to expedite shipping despite the product being delayed. 
Now I am concerned that the product might not be up to snuff or the Amazon description inaccurate. 
Check back in 3 days. I will hopefully have my item by then. And don't pre order items from Amazon -- unless it's a book or CD.
=============
It is November 4 and I finally have my machine. I have been playing with it for the past three hours. 
The performance has been better than I expected. I preordered the machine with Windows 7 and a new ULV processor - both that haven't been tested extensively in the market. But as I said, so far so good. I have purposely tried to multi task and my system has not slowed down. The computer boots up pretty fast and Windows 7 is easy enough to navigate. 
I had a little moment of panic when I first got the item because it says Intel Centrino 2 inside, but Amazon description said Core 2 Duo. After some research online (and no thanks to Amazon OR Lenovo) I figured out that Centrino 2 is the technology that includes the Core 2 Duo processor. 
The internet connectivity is amazing - it connects to my home wireless network so much faster than my HP laptop (now 4 yrs old).  
The only reason I am giving it 4 stars is because it feels a little plasticky. I am realistic that I cannot expect the world for the price I paid, still I was hoping for better. I'd be extremely concerned about dropping it or any hard shakes. I have also come to the realization that even though computer prices have come down, quality has been compromised. Anyway, I am consoling myself that the insides will last way longer than I think! The other annoying thing is the synaptics touchpad. The click buttons are a little noisy and I don't know how, but seems like by some movement of my palm, the font size on the screen is quickly reduced. I don't yet know how to stop this feature. 
Nice keyboard and look and feel. Very sleek, light and thin. The pictures on Amazon are an accurate reflection. I cannot wait to connect it to my HDTV and experience the playback quality. Happy to have an HDMI port. But no S video or other kind of port for older devices. 
Quick to install and use out of box. No zillion CD Roms to contend with or software to uninstall. Overall I am satisfied. And have ripped off all the crazy stickers in anticipation of having a good long relationship with my new machine. Fingers crossed.