ID: B002NEGTTW-R1ST7RAOE1MVK5-AMGKIAQPYV334
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-EOS-7D-Body-Only
ReviewerID: AMGKIAQPYV334
ReviewerName: Arcturus
Date: April 17, 2010
Helpful: 5 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Superb camera. The new king of APS-C
Content:
This camera is absolutely fantastic. The AF is spot on, and the IQ is sublime.
Whilst I don't doubt that there are a few 'duds' out there I also strongly believe that a vast majority of bad reviews and hate are down to total inexperience. This is a very well featured and advanced camera, but it's priced at a level that attracts a number of new DSLR users. 
Some people say that it's soft, or that it needs the best lenses there are to get sharp results.....Total BS. I just used an old (but good) Vivitar 70-210mm f/3.5 Series 1 zoom from the late 70's, and let me tell you; The output was TACK SHARP. I'm not doubting that L glass would provide even better results, but this camera is by no means soft. Even the 28-135mm kit lens produces excellent results, plus it's a joy to use.
The majority of forum threads stating that the 7D is soft have ended up being one of a few things;
a) The user's lens needed slight micro adjustment
b) The user was using the wrong AF mode/zone for the style of shot they were taking (VERY COMMON)
c) The user was a novice and had been using too low a shutter speed or too small an aperture (I even saw f22 on one     thread, causing massive diffraction)
The AF system on this camera is very advanced, and very precise. If you're going to leave it on 19 point AF with AI Servo then don't complain or blame the camera when it chooses a focus point other than the one you wanted! It will choose the first point that it can lock to, this is what it is meant to do.
I shot for 3 days solid with this camera. I liked it one day one, but by the end of day 3 I LOVED IT. The RAW output is very different from what I'm used to, and I had to work on my methods a little to get the most out of the 7D's CR2 files, but now I have it nailed I am extremely happy with my output.
I also still get very confused when I see people viewing AN 18 MEGAPIXEL IMAGE AT 100%!! Why, oh why would you do that? Do you realise how large that image is? Of course you're going to find some sort of noise at that magnification, especially when you're sat half a metre from your screen! It's ridiculous.
Sorry that this review has been of the non technical nature, I feel that most bases have already been well covered in that respect, I just get so tired of silly reviews slating a camera that just requires a little more skill and patience to use properly.
If you don't know why you might need the 7D then you probably don't.....Buy a Rebel, they're great.
If you know what you're doing, and you recognise the advanced features and capabilities of the 7D....GO FOR IT, this camera is exceptional. And remember; the rare cases of a bad copy get shouted about the loudest.
P.S. The guy that slated it for video yet claims to be a Videographer....Actually forget it, I don't even know where to start with you.