ID: B002P3KSKW-RVV1B8HQDR9WJ-A2BS4RH1OD6B5O
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Timeline-AS4810TZ-4508-14-Inch-Aluminum
ReviewerID: A2BS4RH1OD6B5O
ReviewerName: Nancy
Date: December 4, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: VERY HAPPY WITH THIS MODEL
Content:
After much research and trekking around town looking at laptops I finally got this one and I am sooooo happy with it.  It took about 2 hours to create the backup disks.  The instructions were not good.  Be prepared:  you need 3 blank DVDs.  When I first turned on the machine a prompt came up to make the back-ups but by the time I got the CDs it had disappeared.  I was unsuccessful at using the back-up manager, so shut the unit down, and after re-booting the prompt came up and I was able to do it with no trouble.
I removed some of the bloatware, which was also not too difficult. I am not very technical w/computers. I love the windows 7 platform too.  I bought this primarily to have a lightweight travel laptop and needed a DVD player.  It is perfect.  I do a lot of photo editing in Photoshop and it runs very smoothly.  I haven't timed the battery, but have so far been able to do a few hours of photoshopping on the battery with no trouble.  It is so much faster than my old Toshiba Satelite it feels like a dream.
I like the touchpad and keyboard very much.  We also make a lot of powerpoint presentations but have not done any on this yet.  
Be forwarned about MovieMaker in Windows 7 - it is not great.  I tried to make a 13 min. video in MM and it crashed the computer while saving it.  The MovieMaker in Windows XP is much better but won't run on 7.
My only slightest complaint is the screen size is a bit small for photographs, but this is not the fault of the laptop.  I need this size for traveling.  The resolution is excellent - also better than my old toshiba.  
I appreciated all the other detailed reviews that I found here on previous versions of the Acer Timeline, as they helped me make the decision.  This model is so far EXCELLENT.
Enjoy,
ND