ID: B002QUZKYS-R2QKLO0355L8C8-A3O6M28MK2RW2C
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-AS5738Z-4111-15-6-Inch-Windows-Premium
ReviewerID: A3O6M28MK2RW2C
ReviewerName: A reader
Date: November 25, 2009
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: Lots of bang for the buck...
Content:
I ordered this laptop the day Windows 7 was released, and so far I am quite happy with it.  Maxed out RAM (4 GB), Super-sized hard drive, dual-core Pentium (this is Intel's NEW line of Pentium CPUs), nice display.... Video is integrated but it's plenty good for watching DVDs, online video, web surfing, photos, etc.  Windows 7 runs fast and slick on this bad boy.
Now, here is what ANNOYS me:
1.  The keyboard blows.  Acer has tried to imitate the new, flat-style keys (like Apple, Sony), but they seem to have it all wrong.  The key placement is funny and I find the keys to be flat, crowded, indistinct, and difficult to get used to.  The result is more typos.  The keyboard probably won't be a deal-breaker unless you're planning to do lots of typing, or write a novel.  Since this is a wide laptop, they've included a numeric keypad.  I could do without that, but others will find it handy.
2.  The track pad.  The good:  it has a button which allows you to easily disable it.  The bad:  If it isn't disabled, your hands will constantly brush against it as you type....hence even more typing errors.  I disabled much of the multi-gesture functionality and that helped quite a bit.  (Another tip:  Get a good wireless mouse (such as the Logitech V450 Cordless Nano Laser) to use with this.)
3.  The hard drive makes a distinct CLICK sound when it parks the heads.  At least, I *think* this is what is happening.  I'm curious if others have this same clicking sound?  Write comments!  If it's the hard drive "click of death" I'd like to RMA it with Acer...if not, I can probably ignore it as it's only once in a while that it happens.
Other than that... Excellent value for the money.  It's on the large side.  Make sure you buy the right-sized case.