ID: B002OEBTC8-R1UH2DOINHDTTG-A1ZGMR8HEMY6PI
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-K-x-2-7-inch-18-55mm-Black
ReviewerID: A1ZGMR8HEMY6PI
ReviewerName: D. Campbell
Date: April 25, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great DSLR for amature
Content:
I love my new camera, the Pentax KX.  I use the camera with the accompanying 18-55 mm zoom lens as well as lenses from my old Pentax SLR with great results with each lens.  I had resisted making the move to digital for years because I liked the comfort of knowing what I would get with my film SLR camera, but a few years ago I bought a point and shoot digital for my wife; who never felt completely comfortable with my camera. I found myself using her digital more and more frequently because of the instant gratification of seeing the results right on the spot.  I also found myself more and more frustrated with the limitations of the point and shoot including shutter delay and inability to get the results I wanted and was used to with my film SLR.  The clincher came one day when we were at the park with my 2 year old granddaughter and I grabbed my wife's camera to take some pictures as my granddaughter ran joyfully from play equipment to play equipment.  The results were photos of her running out of the scene unless I was able to guess how much to "lead" her when I took the picture to account for the shutter delay.
That same day I ordered the Pentax KX from Amazon and with the Prime shipping got the camera two days later with free shipping.  The camera does everything I want and was used to getting with my old film SLR and then some.  The colors are great, the stop action is unbelievable and with the various settings I am able to get the pictures I want with the effects I want.  For me part of the beauty of the camera is that I can use an automatic setting like the "kids" setting that allows shooting at over 4 frames per second and delivers excellent skin tones or I can control everything from ISO to shutter speed in a manual mode.  Yet it is easy enough to use that my wife has discarded her point and shoot and now uses my camera in the auto mode just like a point and shoot but with better results.
The added benefit of being able to use my old Pentax lenses has been a great cost savings.  I love the ability of the camera to signal when a frame is in focus, even using these old lenses that have an "A" setting on them.  Great camera, great price, great service from Amazon.  I love photography again!