ID: B002NEGTTW-R13WWQYC4DTILE-A1QBG1WU1BKS27
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-EOS-7D-Body-Only
ReviewerID: A1QBG1WU1BKS27
ReviewerName: Peter W. Coe "Mr COE"
Date: December 30, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 13
Rating: 4.0
Title: 7D or 40D and New Camcorder
Content:
I am an avid Canon SLR supporter and have owned the 20D, 30D & 40D.  I am not a professional photographer per say, but I do wedding and event photography by word of mouth customers, So I do know something about the canon D-SLR line.  
I had been contemplating upgrading to the 50D, but experiencing a lack of significant changes from the 20D on up I held off.  Then the 7D came out with its claim to fame of its HD capability.  I had been trying to decide to add video to photo lineup and when Canon offered the 7D with HD, it appeared both of my needs had been answered.  
I am disappointed to say, that the video option of the 7D is not much to write home about.  There is no auto-focus or exposure capability.  You basically are entering live vue, press the half shutter to get the initial focus and exposure and then video from there.  If your distance or exposure changes, your only option is to hit the auto-focus button, which has limited succes and travels in and out several times to find a setting.  This is also very noisey depending on the lens you are using and is picked up very loudly on the audio recording.  Yes, you can use remote mics, but again more money more set up for a one stop product.  Please note, this is not just a low light issue either.  It had similar problems outdoors in day light.  Its amazing that canon makes other low end cameras like the Rebel and the SX1IS that do this dual mode with all the bells and whistles, but ther professional level SLRs do not..  If you want great sharp video and stills get the SX1IS for the everyday vaca shooting its great. 
As far as an improved SLR, to many improvements to list.  New sealed body for outdoor stuff, fast focus and  focusing selections, with new info screen for ease of reading and changes.  Again many many improvements, and definately several steps above the 40D.  If your buying because of the HD, stick with you 40 or 50D and get a camcorder or the SX1IS...