ID: B002L6HDRY-R2UHRXOICE21NX-A18S2VGUH9SCV5
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Orange-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A18S2VGUH9SCV5
ReviewerName: Margaux Paschke
Date: March 6, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: GREAT PURCHASE
Content:
This was purchased as a gift for my son but after borrowing it on occasion, it  looks like I will have to purchase one for myself.  I love all the features contained on this amazing little product.  
The size is amazing!  It is slim and small enough to fit in any pocket which makes it convenient for my son.  The features he uses the most?  He watches video (easily purchased from iTunes or transferred from pc), listens to music (again, easily purchased or transferred) and takes videos and photos.  This is great for keeping him occupied while running errands or long car trips.  The storage of 8G is good for him but I will need to purchase bigger storage capacity.  He's not too happy with the included earphones but that's what allowances are for.  
The things we didn't like?  The camera lens is located where you would naturally hold it and the lens gets easily smudged.  A bad spot but fixed with a hard plastic case (the soft plastic protective case does not work as well) that protects the unit from damage and helps to make a slight height differential which keeps the lens less smudged. The iTunes software is the most irritating for me.  It is free and easy to download and a great option if you are looking for media software for your computer.  I am, however, very happy with what I already have on my system and iTunes constantly tries to overtake my pc as the automatic default player.  ARRGGHHH.  The constant pop ups are very annoying and I hate having to change my settings back since the iTunes acceptance button is sometimes pressed.  We will be loading the iTunes onto the family pc shortly to get around this nuisance.  If you are a Mac user or apple fan, this will not be a problem for you.  
Overall, I love the great features packed into this tiny device.  I think it's reasonably priced when compared to the high cost of toys today.  My younger son wanted a Star Wars Vehicle ($109.99) which might get what? a couple of months worth of play time? versus something for $25 more that should last years.