ID: B002MSJFKO-R2RS1INSZSDNMG-A2KOV8XWZOZ0FQ
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Bosch-TAS6515UC-Single-Serve-Twilight-Titanium
ReviewerID: A2KOV8XWZOZ0FQ
ReviewerName: Juniorverse1
Date: November 6, 2009
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: 5 Stars for this Brewer, 4 Stars for Tassimo
Content:
The manual states not to use this brewer over 6,500 feet (2,000 meters) above sea level.  I thought I'd start out with that first since it could affect many people looking at purchasing this unit.
>>THE BREWER&lt;&lt;
This brewer is top-notch.  It's stylish, well thought out, and the LCD screen that guides you through the process makes it easy for new users and guests to make their own coffee using the Tassimo system.
The water tank in the back is large enough to make an estimated 6-8 cups of coffee without having to be refilled.  The tank uses an optional Mavea water filter (one is included), but the manual indicates that they must be replaced every 8 weeks, which can really add up in cost.  You can use the water tank without the filter, which I have elected to do since I have a filter on my tap water faucet already (much cheaper).  The water tank and lid is not dishwasher-safe.
The cup stand in the front is adjustable so you can use anything from a short espresso cup to a large mug.  The stand can be completely removed for tall glasses.  The entire stand is dishwasher-safe.
After turning on the brewer, you are instructed to insert a t-disc.  After doing so, you are instructed to press the button to start the brewing process.  After the process is complete, you are given an additional 20 seconds to hold down the button for extending the process if you prefer a weaker taste.  The only thing I don't like is that you are supposed to wait for this 20 second period to expire, even if you do not wish to make the drink weaker, before the light turns orange and then you can remove the t-disc and either insert the next t-disc for another cup or for inserting a milk or creamer disc.  I wish you could press the button to skip this extra 20 second window if you desire.
Cleaning is easy, but it does take time.  The brewer comes with a yellow cleaning t-disc that you insert and run a couple of cleaning cycles with, but it is definitely not thorough enough on its own.  You still need to wipe the bar code reader down and wash off the t-disc holder, piercing unit, and drink outlet (the latter three are dishwasher-safe).  You will also be required to use a de-scaler when the unit instructs you to (de-scaler not included).  There is a place in the back of the unit to store the yellow cleaning disc, but the water tank has to be removed to access it.  It would be more convenient if the storage area was somewhere on the side so it was accessible without having to remove the water tank.
Overall, this is a great brewer for the Tassimo coffee system.
>>THE TASSIMO SYSTEM&lt;&lt;
While this brewer itself is 5-stars, I have to rate the actual Tassimo and t-disc system 4 stars for two main reasons:
- The t-discs are plastic.  While I understand the need for plastic for t-disc that contain milk or creamer for use in cappuccinos, lattes, and hot chocolate, it would be nice if the Tassimo system didn't use plastic for coffee and espresso.  Of course, this would have required Tassimo to design things differently from the beginning.  But it's an awful waste of plastic.  And it no doubt accounts for the somewhat high cost of t-discs.
- Because the t-discs are plastic, I am noticing a very slight plastic smell and taste whenever I brew coffees.  The taste is unnoticeable when brewing any beverages that include a milk or creamer t-disc, but I notice it slightly whenever I brew straight coffee.
>>SUMMARY&lt;&lt;
If you are looking to buy your first Tassimo machine, you may want to research further.  See if others complain about the plastic taste frequently.  You may or may not experience the same thing... maybe I am overly sensitive to it?  If you have used Tassimo in the past and are simply looking to upgrade to a new brewer, this unit would be hard to beat.