ID: B002Q8HK7K-R120CGU6BH2D9X-A8FG5HXKI4V5G
Category: Laptops
Product: UL80Vt-A1-14-Inch-Light-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A8FG5HXKI4V5G
ReviewerName: E. Ward
Date: February 25, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 4
Rating: 1.0
Title: battery didn't work & Adorama didn't exchange as promised
Content:
From what exp while I had it, it seamed great other than the battery didn't work. Before I bought it I called the retailer Adorama & asked if it was faulty if they would exchange, I was told yes. When I recived it it seamed great, but I had it plugged in. I loaded everything I wanted onto it, it even ran CS4 without an issue with plug-ins (though CS4 said it would have problems due to the processor). 
     Two days after I tried out the switching between video (onboard & dedicated) & had some issues with in not being smooth transition, but was able to sort that out. Then later I unplugged it for the first time & found out either; battery was DOA, power supply system was DOA, or the motherboard was DOA. I spend hours on the phone with ASUS trying to clear the problem up to no avail. Because I had purchessed it for a 3-4 (depart in less than 3 weeks) month trip I needed it to be dealt with quickly. So I tried to exchange it with Adorama as I had been promised I could, they absolutly refused. In the past I have always had exillent on time delivery service with Adorama, that is why I have spent $20K+ with them with my photography buisness. Granted I had never needed to return any of the equipment I had bought untill now, but I can honestly say they have lost all of my future buisness forever! 
    So now I have had to send it into ASUS, with a 3-8 week turn around expected. So I have spent $880 for a new latop to use on a photography trip, that will not be back untill after I leave, & ASUS will not send it to anything other than my origonal address on the order. So now I have to go out & purchess another laptop for my trip. 
    As for ASUS purely I have bought 3 of thier computers; 1 desktop, 1 laptop, & 1 netbook. Not a single one of them has worked right off the bat. The desktop had a video card & ram that were not installed properly, the laptop discussed above worked as long as pluged in, & the netbook had a corrupted harddrive. All were brand new, the 2 that exchanged & fixed worked great since then. Seriously though that have the wost QA I have ever scene to have 3 out of the products purchessed at diffrent times, stores, & locations to have problems. Though if you are willing to not be able to use you're puchess for 3-8 weeks then they are pretty good, can't beat the warrenty without paying allot extra.
    Just be aware they have great consumer reports, but don't plan on being able to use it right away.