ID: B002PHM0KE-R2Z7VVBDHWXSSD-A1XTP76N1RLV8Z
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VGN-NW240F-15-5-Inch-Windows-Premium
ReviewerID: A1XTP76N1RLV8Z
ReviewerName: Paul Kim "Paul Kim"
Date: December 26, 2009
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Almost "Perfect"
Content:
I purchased SONY NW240F to replace my old DELL 1525 laptop from 2008.
I hope this review helps for those whom considering to buy this baby.
Please note that I am not a laptop expert! I am just writing my thoughts..
* Overview
NW240 is a "mid-end priced laptop with high quality."
It features 4GB RAM, Intel Core 2.20 GHz DUO Processor, and 15.5-inch screen.
I would like to walk you through with every single details on NW240.
1. Screen
As I expected, SONY NW240 features bright and crisp screen. Although the quality isn't as good compared to
other "high-end" laptops, it runs HD/Blu-ray Movie files pretty smoothly. Actually, to be honest, I am a little
bit disappointed about the picture quality of NW240. This probably is because SONY used lower-quality graphic
media accelerator.
2. Speaker
The speaker sound quality is actually better than I expected although It's not as loud or strong, but It's still great.
3. Keyboard & Trackpad (mouse)
Ok, SONY did an amazing job with the keyboard and Trackpad.
One of the reasons why I bought this laptop is because of the keyboard. NW240 has the "chicklet" style keyboard.
If you are a writer, you will love 'em.
In addition, the trackpad is pretty cool. It has this bumpy texture feeling to it, which I love. At first, it was
hard to adjust to it, but now I can't go back to my old DELL's trackpad.
****I am not sure if it's only mine but the trackpad freezes/lags once in a while, but not very frequent. I am not sure why, but it kinda annoys me.
4. Components
On the left side of the laptop, there are several ports. Power outlet, PC (VGA) Component Port, HDMI port, Firewire port, ONE USB port
On the front side of the laptop, WiFi On/off switch, SD and Flash Card.
On the right side of the laptop, TWO USB ports, Earphone and Mic ports and CD/DVD Drive.
5. Extra Features
NW240 has this "WEB ONLY" button for quick internet access.
For example, when you want to google something real quick, but do not want to wait two minutes booting up the whole
system, you can simply press the "WEB" button next to the normal power button to load up SONY's exclusive
Web-only booting. Usually it takes less than 30 seconds to bring up the browser. This is very convenient.
6. General Performance
Featuring Dual Core with 4GB RAM on a 64x system, this laptop runs smooth and fast.
Although laptops shouldn't be used for gaming, I am certain this laptop would be great for gamings too.
7. Battery Life
SONY said this laptop lasts 4 hours on battery. Well, that is true. However, when I was browsing on the web, the battery only lasted about 2.5 hours.
8. Weight
This laptop is about 6 pounds, which is pretty heavy. I do not recommend this laptop if you are looking for mobility.
* Conclusion
I am definately loving this laptop. This is by far the best laptop I have used in my life.
I would recommend this laptop for: Writers, Students
But not really for: Gamers, People looking for mobility.