ID: B002P8M8HS-R3SZFF61V6B3OC-A12EXVA5RIZY6L
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-L505-S5993-TruBrite-15-6-Inch
ReviewerID: A12EXVA5RIZY6L
ReviewerName: K. Jones "treedoc"
Date: January 3, 2010
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great laptop
Content:
After months of contemplating to purchase a new laptop to replace my old Dell latitude D600 I finally pulled the trigger. I purchased this one 3 days before Thanksgiving from Amazon. The initial purchase price was $579.99. Before it even arrived I went back to review my purchase the day after Thanksgiving and the price was now $499.99! Being a bit peeved that I just paid $80.00 more for the exact same laptop 3 days earlier I wrote and requested a refund of the difference. Amazon wrote me back and tried to make me feel guilty by saying they don't have a price guarantee but since it was just 3 days that they would go ahead and refund the difference, which they did and of which I really appreciated. The first laptop arrived and died over night! I contacted Toshiba to try and figure out why Windows would not start and was instructed to send it back. I contacted Amazon and they immediately sent a replacement. 
So far this laptop has been working flawlessly.  The Windows 7 is lightning fast compared to XP. It boots right up from a cold start and shuts down fast. The wireless antenna picks up connections from all over the neighborhood. Connecting to my wireless service was a snap. The battery that came with the machine was a bit weak. It didn't seem to last very long so I purchased a 9 hour battery direct from Toshiba which holds a charge for a long time. The 9 hour battery is rather big and bulky but it beats dragging around a cord. The only thing I am not too thrilled about is the speakers. They seem rather puny, I can hardly hear them. Overall, this machine and Windows 7 is a huge upgrade for me. If it lasts half as lond as the Dell did I will be happy.
I would like to add that my experience with Amazon has been outstanding with this purchase. No hassles whatsoever.