ID: B002LEVGMO-R3ECCPPN45JS2Y-AR30EZVLY1RZ5
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Aspire-AS1410-8804-11-6-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: AR30EZVLY1RZ5
ReviewerName: nick g
Date: January 27, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: great little computer
Content:
I got this computer in December 2009 and I love it!  It's definitely no speed demon but its fast enough for the things I want to do.  The screen is big enough too, without being too big.  Its very thin and light so it fits easily in my bag and weighs so little I forget its in there (which is dangerous when I put my bag down too hard!)  The silly trackpad gestures are annoying when they get in the way, which is often, and useless anyway, but they are easy to disable so its not a drawback.  I wish the trackpad supported two finger scrolling like my old Asus and like my girlfriend's Mack Book, but it doesn't.  Oh well.  
The keyboard takes some getting used to - the old Acer keyboards were better.  The flat tops make it easy to accidentally push two keys at the same time, and they are very close together.  I think Acer was trying to emulate the look of the Macintosh keyboard, but didn't get it quite right.  It is close enough though after you spend some time getting used to it it works fine.  They keyboard layout is unchanged from prior versions, and it is a good layout.  They keys are labeled for both typical US-English usage and for International, so if you need to enable Alt-Gr key and the the Euro  symbol that appears on the 5 key you just need to add the "United States-International" keyboard layout in the Regions and Languages section of the Control Panel.  I had to search around for a while before I found out just how easy it was.  
There are some mysterious function key labels, like the circle with a check mark in it and the pizza pie, I still haven't figured out what they do yet. The rest are standard.   
There is an HDMI port on this computer and I plugged it in to my friend's HD television and I was pretty happy with the results!  The TV picked up the signal immediately and within short order I was able to use Skype with my friend on the television set in HUGE form.  It was a bit geeky but still cool.  It can also be used to watch netflix movies in streaming format or youtube videos too.  When I first plugged in the tv, something called the Intel TV Wizard appeared and tried to help configure the display.  It only kind of worked and froze a couple of times, so I would be careful using it.  I restarted my computer and set the TV up as an external display and this worked much better.  Maybe there is an update for the Intel wizard, I haven't looked for it yet because I was planning to upgrade to Windows 7.  
The built-in SD card slot can be used for Windows Vista or Windows 7 ReadyBoost feature.  It will tell you that the card is not suitable for ReadyBoost the first time you stick it in there, so make sure you test it again.  If its a fast enough SD card (I tried Class 4 or above) it will work properly on the second test.  I didn't really notice much of a speed increase though, but it probably does make my programs launch a little bit faster.  
Acer did a good job by not including too much bloat ware in their default installation.  I removed all of the games and some of the trial versions of office programs, but I kept McAfee and I will remove it when the trial period is up.  McAfee checks for updates way too often, though, probably at least 4 times per day, and when it is installing the update the whole computer bogs down dramatically.  I changed the settings so it has to ask me before it installs the update, so it doesn't interrupt me if I'm doing something time-sensitive.  Kind of annoying and I will not be sad to see it go when the trial period is up.  I plan to replace it with Avast Home.   
I wasn't too impressed with the speed under Windows Vista, though it wasn't too slow it just didn't feel snappy, I am much happier now that I installed the free Windows 7 upgrade from Acer.  It took a good two or three weeks to arrive after I ordered it, but that was not unreasonable.  Its a bit tricky to install the upgrade though since this notebook computer does not come with a dvd drive - you will definitely need to borrow an external dvd drive for the upgrade unless you are brave, patient, and have good technology skillz.  (I have the skills and patience but I'm not brave enough to risk messing up my new laptop just yet.)  
The upgrade process was nearly flawless - my two comments are:  
1) The upgrade wizard is too general - I was upgrading from Vista but the wizard assumed that I needed to use the Windows Easy Transfer Wizard to upgrade, which is not correct.  I did not object to it using the Easy Transfer Wizard to back up my documents and settings, but it should not have asked me to restore them since Windows 7 upgrades from Vista in-place so my documents settings were preserved automatically.  If you are upgrading from XP, however, you will definitely need to restore this information.  
2) After the upgrade my built-in microphone does not work any more.  It still appears in the device manager and all the reports suggest that it is correctly installed and configured, but the sound level is too quiet to use it with Skype any more.  It had been working perfectly with Vista just before the upgrade, so I am disappointed by this.  If you shout really loud you can be heard, so I know its kind of sort of working, but its just not usable.  
I will post a follow up comment if I figure out the microphone issue.  
Cheers!