ID: B002BH4OYS-R35AT6GZO7NZNM-A1IBKN1GXYJ3K4
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV6-1250US-15-6-Inch-Entertainment-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1IBKN1GXYJ3K4
ReviewerName: Dave
Date: July 29, 2009
Helpful: 25 of 25
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great notebook for the home
Content:
I recently purchased a slightly different version of this HP DV6 laptop for my mother-in-law (all HP DV6 laptop models share a common chassis and only vary on a few components).  The first thing about the DV6 line that impressed me was the build quality. It is well constructed with a metallic toned black plastic exterior (some other DV6 models come in white). Take a good look at the shell art since it is something that may not appeal to everyone.  My mother-in-law definitely appreciated having something a little more individual than the usual dull grey exterior. Despite the glossy exterior we haven't noticed much in the way of finger prints or any scratches despite the helping hands of our kids who love to "help" grandma with her computer. (Update: I've learned there are some models without art work such as the HP Pavilion DV6-1050US 16.0-Inch Laptop and the HP Pavilion DV6-1030US 16.0-Inch Laptop.)
The specs for this model are aimed at someone focused on web browsing and office type applications with only light gaming:
CPU - The Core 2 duo is the best performing notebook CPU on the market and the P7350 included with this computer is a upper mid-range Core2 Duo (2.0 GHz w/3MB cache and 1066 MHz Memory Bus).  It can handle two threads which means you can have the virus scanner running while you surf the web with no noticeable slowdown.  It's a pretty good fit for a higher end laptop CPU and it's far above what you need for typical notebook tasks and it has a enough performance head-room to keep your computer from becoming outdated anytime soon.  It's a lot better than the "Pentium" branded CPUs you see in lower-end notebooks which typically run slower and have far less cache.
RAM - The 4GB of RAM is combined with a 64bit OS to which should provided more than enough memory for pretty much any application you can think of outside of extremely high end gaming.
HDD - 500GB plenty is far more space than you need now but again, I like the future proofing. Some people may not like that it is 5400 RPM drive (vs. 7200 RPM) but the performance difference for home users is nearly zero and the reliability of 5400 RPM drives makes me prefer them in notebooks which are hard on hard disks (because they move around while in use notebook HDDs suffer far more failures than desktop drives) 
Graphics - While I am a fan of Intel CPUs their graphics performance has lagged the competition.  The good news is that the integrated Intel 4500MHD graphics controller in this model is a step up from previous Intel offerings and all most home users will need.  I still wouldn't recommend you try and run graphics hungry 3-D games on it but it's fine for playing videos, surfing the web, doing light gaming, and running office applications.  If you want more graphics power look for notebooks with ATI graphics since Nvidia has been having quality issues lately that have resulted in recalls.
Display - HP has a reputation for high-end displays and this one delivers. Tuned slightly for indoor use the HP Brightview display is good enough for outdoor use though not as much as a more matte display. Indoors it is brilliant with surprisingly strong blacks (too many notebook displays are all brightness with no depth). We have the slightly larger 16" wide screen and it provides a decent amount of vertical space without overdoing it. The difference between this and a 14" is surprising.  (Note: HP recently starting mixing 15.6" and 16.0" screens in the DV6 model line.  You can usually buy a very similar model with either screen size but you may have to order direct from HP).
Sound - Surprisingly good sound for a notebook. The speakers are well positioned and deliver a good range. I've heard better but it was on a $3K notebook. 
Battery - The typical 6 cell Lithium Ion.  Notice in some bundles of the DV6 HP includes a 12 cell.  If you need extended battery time look for the 12 cell (it only adds about 1/10 of a pound).  If you plug in often you will be fine with the six cell.
I don't have any serious "cons" for this computer. The "Touch Media Controls" for things like the volume (as opposed to buttons you push) are a little odd at first but we got used to them quickly and hey, they look cool when they light up. 
To wrap it all up: a good computer for home users who don't plan on running high-end games and who looking for something with above average build quality and maybe a little more CPU than average.