ID: B002OHDBZS-R35U7AUSMNL53R-A4PQEFQSNACTD
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-Digital-Reduction-18-55mm-Resistant
ReviewerID: A4PQEFQSNACTD
ReviewerName: T. Sawyer
Date: March 12, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: very, very pleased
Content:
After years of keen 35mm SLR photography I had retired my old Pentax kit and settled for compact digital photography, waiting for the "right" DSLR camera to come along. After seeing reviews of the K7 it seemed the ideal camera with the right spec and that would allow me to use my older Pentax glass so I took the plunge and ordered one along with the DA 18-55 lens.
First impressions were good, nice and neat in the hand (other DSLRs will feel bulky), feels expensive, buttons well laid out and menus clear and a nice shutter sound. Its first assignment was on the continental divide in CO in mid Feb and it performed flawlessly in snow and temperatures significantly lower that the camera's quoted -15C. The 5.2 fps worked really well for action sequences and the images came out crisp and clear. Since then it has been used for more ordinary photography and has continued to impress; my wife is an artist and she has been using it for her work and loves it.
So, in short, it has been an excellent purchase that I am very happy with indeed. The camera compares very favourably in operation and performance to Canon and Nikon cameras that I have encountered, is better looking and has less "pose factor" than those brands (which I like).
Image quality is excellent with clear vibrant colours, operation smooth and easy to use with an excellent array of useful modes and features, weatherproofing effective. The low ISO performance which seems to be a criticism in reviews has not been an issue for me at all as I don't do that much of it, but results have been good for me even in low light. The kit lens is an ideal out and about lens and weatherproof, but don't expect it to be amazing optically as it is pretty cheap but it gets decent results and there is a huge choice in new and old Pentax lenses for all requirements. Video performance is also good and it's a welcome feature - I use it more that I thought I would.
All in all, delighted and fully recommend.