ID: B002GE829Y-RST0XPYQBHNMJ-A2O5FQZDUSXZ8G
Category: AirConditioners
Product: Danby-DPAC12099-000-Portable-Conditioner
ReviewerID: A2O5FQZDUSXZ8G
ReviewerName: Karon Boswell "Shopper747"
Date: April 3, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: Totally worth the money!!!
Content:
I turn into a complete diva when I am hot!!! Wherefore, I bought this unit about a month ago and I could not be more pleased!!! This machine cools practically my entire upstairs. Likewise, after about 3 weeks of running it basically non-stop, I finally emptied the water and it was barely even full. I assume it could be ran a few more months before it even needed dumped. 
In regards to the noise quality, I do not find the unit to be all that loud. In fact, I think that my portable fan is more noisy than this unit. In other words, I am able to sleep with it on high without any trouble. Additionally, in the afternoons, I may have to turn my television up a tiny bit more than normal in order to hear it.
Unfortunately, my place does not have separate a/c units for the 1st and 2nd levels. Therefore, I had to purchase this because the upstairs feels like a sauna without it. At the time, I could find a unit with 14,000 BTUs so I purchased this 12,000 one. If you are looking to cool an entire floor, I would suggest upgrading to a 14,000 BTU unit because as I said earlier, this unit cools practically my entire upstairs. However, I believe a 14,000 BTU unit would do a much better job when it comes to reaching the far bedroom. Nonetheless, if you have a small upstairs, this unit would be perfect. 
I gave this system 4 stars because my only complaint about the unit involves the window attachments. Unfortunately, the system comes equipped for a sliding glass door but not for a window. Considering that I do not have a sliding glass door, I have had to rig mine to fit a window. (I am still in the process of making it work.) In short, the parts come with very tiny screws and no nuts. Wherefore, I suggest purchasing longer screws and some nuts to secure them with. Otherwise, the plastic pieces fall apart and it becomes a hassle to deal with. Likewise, unless you have a very narrow window, you may need to saw the additional piece to fit two of them together. Otherwise, you will have a huge gap in your window because the piece is not long enough to stretch across. Other than the window attachments not being designed well, I would have to say that I am extremely happy with my purchase. In other words, anything is better than sitting in the heat!!!