ID: B002C7446A-R2I3S4RGRLVURY-A1VGYJMTX8USKJ
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB991LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1VGYJMTX8USKJ
ReviewerName: Scorpio One
Date: January 15, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: The Best Laptop I Have Owned
Content:
I have been a die hard PC user since I was a kid. I have built PC's from scratch as a teenager, worked in hardware, troubleshooting, etc and know a PC inside-out. I had tried using a Mac in 2003 and was so frustrated after 2 weeks that I planned to never use one again. Well, fast forward to 2009 and I wanted to buy a new laptop to replace my trusty 6 year old Dell Latitude that was giving me trouble. As I wanted a lighter laptop, I decided to stick to the 13" screen. After lots of research I narrowed the choice between the Dell XPS 13 and the Macbook Pro 13. After further deliberation, bugging friends for their advice and spending time at the Apple and Microsoft store (yes, we have one in Phoenix!), I decided to take the plunge and buy the Macbook Pro. 
I have not used a Windows laptop since that day 2 months ago!! This is by far the best laptop or computer I have ever owned! One of my major concerns before I switched was adjusting to a new OS and learning stuff all over again. Let me tell you this: Apple is a very smart company and has made their OS so much simpler for a Windows person to use when compared to at least 6 years ago. No wonder so many people like me have switched sides and are continuing to switch everyday. I had planned to use this laptop for 2 weeks at least before I returned it because of frustration. I thought that it was a fair amount of time to get used to a new OS. In reality, it took me about 10 minutes to get used to it!! It was that easy and intuitive. I have waited until today to write this review as I was trying to find a list of things that did not work on this laptop or things that frustrated me. There are a couple of minor pet peeves (Eg: the 2 USB slots are so close together, that only one can be used at a time with most devices; the laptop does get hot on the left side near the screen when using for extended periods of time) but they are not huge deterrents. Everything else has been like magic. I am amazed at how fast this baby wakes up from sleep. 2 seconds!! Yes, that's right, I said 2 seconds. Anyways, there's so many things in the MBP (Macbook Pro) that just make everyday computing simpler and you can read about them in other reviews or on Apple's site. 
One thing I would like to mention is the new trackpad. It is a thing of sheer genius! Once you use it, you will never want to use a normal laptop trackpad any more. The different finger gestures are so intuitive and easy and will take you about 2 minutes to get used to. 
I guess this review is mainly to convince others like me who have always used a PC and are fairly technical/advanced users of it that you too can make the switch. The 2 things I would ask anyone seriously thinking about switching to do are:
1. Go to Apple's website and watch the "Switching to a Mac" and "Basics of a Mac" video learning guides before you buy a Macbook. You don't need to watch all of them but watch as many as you can. It will greatly reduce your frustration in the first 10 minutes of opening a computer with an OS that you have never used. 
2. Buy "Mac OS X Snow Leopard: The Missing Manual" by David Pogue after you buy the MBP. Mac OS X Snow Leopard: The Missing ManualI bought mine on Amazon for about $15. It is well worth the money. Pogue has written a gem and reading it has helped me discover so many things about the MBP and Snow Leopard that I would not have otherwise learnt. Shortcuts, guides, how-to's, cool features, hidden things, etc. You name it, the book has it. Like the title suggests, the book should come packaged with every MBP. 
This is my first review on Amazon and although I have bought tons of stuff in the past, I was never so passionate about something to ever write a review. So, don't hesitate, go out there and get the Macbook Pro (wait for the new refresh this Summer though!) and you won't regret it.