ID: B002XZLURC-R2MH3YI6K9XKB8-AX9RFE4B7N4MJ
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30Vt-X1-Light-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: AX9RFE4B7N4MJ
ReviewerName: Brady "Brady"
Date: February 15, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Everything I was looking for
Content:
This laptop is almost perfect. What's holding it back is build quality. I wish it was a little higher. Most notable "low quality" part of this laptop is the keyboard. It's not completely supported on the left side it seems. Typing in that half of the keyboard results in an unsatisfying ringing sound. It's not that big of a deal though.
This thing is incredibly sexy. When I bring it to class, it turns heads. I love the brushed metal lid!
The battery life is insane. Sometimes I don't even charge it every night. A typical day has me bring this baby to classes, use it constantly in every single one of them, then take it home and use it some more. The Power4Gear mode (ASUS's power management software) I fell in love for battery life is Quiet Office. I changed it around to suit my needs of course, but this is the mode I have this laptop in almost all the time. The other is High Performance. This one is perfect for gaming, or when you just need some more power.
If you're looking for numbers I would have to tell you I haven't worked on this thing continuously until it's run out. I use it for a few hours then put it in hibernate, then use it more. It just goes and goes.
I am a power user. I run Adobe CS4 applications, game occasionally, and generally use a laptop unlike the average person. When I was reading reviews on this thing, I could not for the life of me find one where the reviewer ran Photoshop or other high powered programs on it. Gaming, sure, that was accounted for, but I am a web/graphic designer and needed something I could do work on in any location.
I'm pleased to say that this laptop runs Photoshop and other CS4 applications great. The Core 2 ULV is a beast, really. Coupled with 4gb of ram, I've been run about 15 heavy programs simultaneously (that's not the cap, just the number I happened to have open) and this thing never hiccuped.
I've also gamed on it. It runs Call of Duty Modern Warfare 2 at native resolution with perfectly playable frame rates. I turned off shadows and some other graphics intensive extras.
This thing is very light, convenient, and has the perfect form factor. It NEVER gets hot. When I have it on quiet office mode, I can't even hear then fan. The bottom is completely cool. Even on high performance mode, it's hard to hear even though the fan is running at a higher speed. And the underside still doesn't get hot!
I know the new UL laptops with Core iX processors are coming out soon but if you've been looking at this one debating whether to get it or not, GET IT! You won't be disappointed. It will run whatever you need it to!