ID: B002PK156G-R2Y6W38KQTFX0E-AGRGPW2OMOQ52
Category: Laptops
Product: Lenovo-Ideapad-U-450p-14-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: AGRGPW2OMOQ52
ReviewerName: Nancy Kenworthy
Date: January 26, 2010
Helpful: 10 of 15
Rating: 3.0
Title: At first was a "don't buy"! Now after cajoling, they replaced. Nice.
Content:
This is the worst laptop I have ever owned. Everything started out just fine. Great keyboard, beautiful screen. Three days after I purchased the laptop the hard drive began to make a terribly loud crunching noise. This was LOUD. Unfortunately I had a death in the family and did not use the laptop for about three weeks afterward. I resumed use- the laptop sits on my desk at home and decided to live with the hard drive noise. But then the screen began to get lines running vertically on the screen. Continued to get worse as the day went by and then the upper 1/4 of the LCD screen disappeared. Sent back to Lenovo- they said it was "accidental damage" and want me to pay $182 to get it fixed! I did not drop, damage it in anyway! The computer is a lemon. It was exactly three days after purchase that the hard drive began to make the noise, five weeks that the LCD screen went bye bye. I am very very unhappy with this computer and Lenovo (who still has it) and pursuing my credit card insurance to cover the repair. If they will not cover it, I will just forget it and and consider the $699 I paid for it a bad, bad loss. I will never ever ever buy a Lenovo again!
OK- 3 weeks later...I have a NEW Lenovo. My doing- I just gently but firmly fought with Lenovo. First day of use of my new replaced laptop. I LOVE it. But a word about their service! As stated above, after returning the lemon of a laptop, tech support called it "accidental damage" and wanted to charge me $182 for repair. They kept calling not even leaving a call back number. So I started at the bottom of the ladder again, and called tech support, explained the situation, when I got a "no", I asked to speak to a supervisor. On up the ladder. Til I finally found someone who listened to my story- and eventually replaced it! I received it today. It is quiet (so far) and working magnificently.
My eldest son is a VP at McAfee. He visited at Christmas and said that there was something very wrong with the hard drive
on my original laptop- and that I might eventually see things begin to fail. And he was right. When I threw that piece of info to the supervisor who actually replaced the laptop, it seemed to help my case.
I will edit this review if I have another problem with this replacement. But so far it's great and I must give Lenovo some credit. But it took a lot of time to get SOMEONE there to understand. I think if I had my son take care of this initially with tech support, I might not have had to work so hard to get it replaced. But I must give Lenovo credit so I am elevating my review to 3* and will be back and give it 5* if it continues to perform as nicely as it has today. :)