ID: B002LEXA64-R7D6RYYXDY0RV-AWZ089K9LFFFV
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Aspire-AS1410-8414-11-6-Inch-Sapphire
ReviewerID: AWZ089K9LFFFV
ReviewerName: M. Yoon
Date: November 9, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: great laptop with a few flaws
Content:
I have owned this computer for the past month.  Its a great little laptop that can do almost anything.  I got it for $399 through J&R when it was on sale.  
Pros -  Screen Size - 11.6 Inch screen is so much better than the other ones out there.   Its sharp and great
        for watching     movies.  The screen is very glossy which can be a bad thing and the viewing angle is not 
        as good as it can be.  
        
        Battery Life - I'm not getting the 6 hours plus that other people are reporting but I don't bother to lower the 
        screen brightness or anything like that.  It's long enough that I don't have to lug around the power 
        cord everywhere.  
        
        1080p Video Playback - Now this is awesome.  The machine couldn't play HD content when running Vista but once I 
        upgraded to Windows 7 it plays back HD content.  Its not going to be the best picture that you are going to get
        but it is totally viewable with very little stutter.  
        HDMI Output - You won't get a HDMI output on other netbooks.  This output is a nice feature as it reduces the 
        clutter when you are viewing online content on your TV Screen.  
 
        Windows 7 - Free Upgrade!  Enough said.  I love windows 7.  I have two Macs and Windows 7 has features that 
        surpasses Mac OS X.  Besure to download the latest driver from Synaptic.  It allows you to do multitouch 
        gestures as in Mac.  Not quite as smooth and seamless as in the Mac but it it 90% there.  Besides with 
        driver updates i'm sure it will get really close.  
        Processor - Much faster than other Netbooks out there.  1.4gig Solo processor will not win any speed awards 
        but with Windows 7 it is very liveable.  I don't do any heavy processing besides watching HD movies so it 
        works for me.  All the features of Windows 7 including transparencies, windows flip can be used on this 
        machine.  
        Size - This platform is a perfect balance between portability and usability.  My dad has a Lenovo S10 and 
        I can't use it cause it is too small.  Keyboard Screen all too small.  This laptop can be used all day 
        and you won't get tired from it.  
        Easy Upgradeability - Memory compartment and the HardDrive compartment are very easily accessible.  
        I upgradeded to 4gigbytes and the performance is much better.
Cons -  Keyboard - Its easy to type on but they have semi large spaces between the keys that allows debris to get 
        underneath and get stuck underneath the keys.  So if you eat around your computer be very careful. 
 
        Touch Pad - A little bit too small and you can't really see where it starts and ends cause its the same color. 
        Slight texture difference but thats it. 
    
        Graphics Card - You won't be playing any heavy duty games on this machine.  A good thing since I don't play 
        any games.  
All in all.  Its an awesome value.  Especially since I got a free upgrade to Windows 7.  This OS really makes this machine
so much better.  I recommend this machine over the netbook competition.