ID: B002OEBTCS-R2PCFFAJ7EGUAH-A21LDGIEAVN45L
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-K-x-2-7-inch-18-55mm-55-300mm
ReviewerID: A21LDGIEAVN45L
ReviewerName: Mark C. "Pentax Cameras"
Date: March 26, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: K-x is great for beginners, will even satisfy picky prosumers
Content:
This camera absolutely excels in LOW LIGHTING CONDITIONS. It works with thousands of Pentax lenses, and picture quality is at least as good as any of the competition at this price range.  If your worried about battery issues, don't be.  Just update the FIRMWARE (very easy to do) and get two sets of good quality 2300mah or better batteries and you're good for a long hike in the mountains.
I have a K10D that I still shoot with on occasion, and now the K-x is what I use most of the time.  It is smaller, lighter, and outperforms cameras costing three times as much in low light.
If you are a prosumer, about the only drawback I would consider is that the focus points do NOT appear in the viewfinder (only on the LED).  
The HD video is just 'OK' and something I probably won't use at all on this camera.  The main reason being the video mode does not auto-focus (even with AF lenses), and the video mode drains the batteries too much. (Again, don't worry about battery issues with normal photo shoots.)
I've been shooting Pentax for 32 years, and have many Pentax lenses.  That is the primary reason I bought the K-x, but not the only one.  It just takes great pictures, and my wife can get good results as well in the 'AUTOPIC' mode.
I might suggest also getting a good flash unit to go with this.  I have taken at least a hundred shots with the built in flash on one set of batteries, but if you're going to be doing much flash shooting, any of the flash unites the work with any Pentax digital camera will work find with this one.
The kit lenses are very good lenses.  I got the 18-55 and 70-300 kit and tested both of those lenses with great results.  My son is no enjoying them on his K10D (a bonus b'day gift).
I give it an 8 out of 10.  Also, the price cannot be beat for what this camera delivers.
[...]