ID: B002FWMF8G-R3LYHNU6IY89EP-A10AFVU66A79Y1
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Mr-Coffee-BVMC-FM1-20-Ounce-Frappe
ReviewerID: A10AFVU66A79Y1
ReviewerName: R. Cipriani "Flo"
Date: December 26, 2009
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Grab one of these Mr. Coffee's and Frappe Away...... you will not be sorry!!
Content:
You all know that we could all live without a frappe maker but if you are like me and LOVE Frappe and  anything like it .. This will be a true Joy  to Own... 
 Now not only will it save you Lots of $$$..( stop dropping by the Lots o Bucks Coffee Drive thru))  it will make your life a lot happier as you can one whenever you get the urge. Also the darn things  looks Really Cool on the counter;not too big and not too small just right. 
 Oh, one more thing...... trying to be health and weight conscious I grabbed a few bottle of Da Vinci's Sugar free Carmel and Hazelnut to get me started.  And WOW.. great choices. I am going back for more flavors.  Also received a gift of flavored tea's that I am going to try.. i.e. chocolate peppermint is one of them .. so I am going to try some Tea Frappes... as well.
First let me say that this item can't be any simpler to use: 
1.Add coffee and water to the machine 
2.Add ice/ milk and flavoring to blender ... and HIT the Button.-- The coffee Brew's ( oh the wonderful smell)) and then drips right into all that wonderful milk and Carmel flavor and burr goes the blender ... and  Viola.... 
3.  a Nice big  Frothy Frappe... .. toss it into a tall glass, add a straw and spritz it with SF Whipped Cream and start enjoying.!!!!!! You get either one very generous serving or 2 average size servings.
Clean up was a breeze.. nothing too it..Dishwasher safe..
So the Negatives on this item :
  1. So I have NOTHING bad to say about this great item...
  2. The strength of the coffee is the only thing that may be a little trial and error to adjust to your personal taste but there are a load of recipes that comes with this item and if you like a stronger coffee flavor just start off with a little more coffee or a darker blend.
 3. Cost may be a consideration for some but if you are a regular purchaser of these  coffee drinks this item will SAVE you  money. and I mean LOTS of MONEY... it just makes me smile to think about that..
  4. Volumn of blending is a little on the loud side but not enough to make me put  this away but may not want to use it if the baby is sleeping...
.   ******* Again.. this is not a necessary item UNLESS.. you LOVE Wonderful Coffee Drinks that saves you lots of dollars making them at home and rivals the Big Buck's coffee Places....  but it you love them too... Grab one of these Mr. Coffee's  and Frappe Away............. you will not be sorry!!