ID: B002CGSYKS-R357JZC79KPC7W-AJKOHFCVD85UP
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-Interchangeable-Lens-14-42mm-Silver
ReviewerID: AJKOHFCVD85UP
ReviewerName: Radio Man "yarns13"
Date: October 11, 2009
Helpful: 10 of 13
Rating: 5.0
Title: This camera is something DIFFERENT and SPECIAL
Content:
I was one of the first ones to pre-order the E-P1 maybe one of the few who was able to get it in white. I was not going to write a review because I saw so many other well written reviews I thought I could not add much. What has prompted me to write a review here is that the Panasonic GF1 seems to be getting all raves from owners while the E-P1 seems to be getting bashed too much. I have no stake or purpose to Olympus, matter of fact this is the first Oly I have owned in over 6 years. I HAVE owned the Panasonic LX3, the TZ5 and an older super zoom Pany. The LX3 drove me nuts with the distortion from it's so called amazing lens, The HORRIBLE inaccurate colors from it's lcd, matter of fact every Panasonic I have owned(3) have suffered from very noisy pictures..ugly yellow zig/zag smearing you can see at usually at 400 ISO or higher. I have never gotten natural looking skin tones from any Pany I ever owned..even in raw.. So why am I writing about the E-P1? yet so far saying nothing..just seem to be bashing Panasonic?  BECAUSE though I don't own the GF1 I have read on many different discussion boards that though the GF1 has twice the resolution of the E-P1'S lcd it does not look any better than the E-P1'S lcd..in I have read that E-P1's LCD is easier to view outdoors. I have read the GF1 has some trouble with jpegs on a few colors..I saw samples of the GF1 vs E-P1 on Imaging resource..you will again see Panasonic still has that yellow smearing at slightly high ISO. It has been written the GF1 is really mostly useable to about 800 ISO. I have taken several pics with the E-P1 at 1200 even 1600 ISO and they look VERY clean if there is just a bit of light. The GF1 is $100 more than the E-P1 why?? You are paying $100 more for a tiny flash and NO in body image stabilization, a huge plus for the E-P1 I actually like that you can get the E-P1'S external flash for the same same $100 and it's WAY better than the tiny flip up flash on the GF1.
If you want to choose the 14-45mm lens The E-P1's retractable design is ingenious, I guess it will be about 1/3rd to 1/2 has large as the GF1'S lens once you retract the e-p1's lens. This is a HUGE difference, as many are buying these micro "4/3 cameras for the smaller size." With a huge lens sticking out..you might as well carry a Nikon D40 as it's not night and day heavier or twice as large as either the Olympus or Panasonic. 
As to auto focus speed The E-P1 is plenty FAST. I own the Nikon D90, in live mode the D90 has to be 10 times SLOWER than the E-P1'S focusing speed... The E-P1's colors look "AMAZING" super accurate, scary accurate. I have never seen accurate colors coming from any Panasonic I have owned. 
It's true the E-P1'S menu can be a little confusing, or more that there seems to be many sub menus you may not even know about till you really GET INTO using this camera. I suppose for a point and shoot shooter the GF1 may indeed be better...Pany does have a great intelligent auto mode..But if you want to be creative..the E-P1 gives you so so many options to tweak just about everything. 
To sum up I am not saying the E-P1 is perfect or really BETTER than a GF1..But it's darn GREAT...has a "special thing about it", that makes you WANT to use/play with it. I do hope one day soon they can fit a micro 4/3 sensor etc..into a true point and shoot body. Till then especially with the 14-45mm lens the E-P1 will be much smaller than the GF1. To GF1 readers who are going to bash me for writing about a camera I don't own..I agree with you!,?? I can only base my facts and or opinions on previous Panasonic cameras I have owned, that have disappointed me plus all the research I have done on the GF1 on serious discussion boards from GF1 users, and reading thru some pro reviews. Actually I wrote this more to say what a wonderful SPECIAL "DIFFERENT" camera the E-P1 is vs just about any other camera out there.