ID: B002M3SOBU-R2W6RENUYP3E2O-AGGAQLXPVGM5D
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-Generation-iPhone-Software-Installed
ReviewerID: AGGAQLXPVGM5D
ReviewerName: Eagle Vision
Date: October 2, 2009
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Entertainment Tool for Anyone
Content:
Introduction
This 32GB iPod Touch is replacing my daughter's 30GB iPod Video.  She loves my 32GB iPhone 3GS because of all of the applications that are available.  Many games run from $0.99 to $9.99 in iTunes.  Some games are actually free.  In addition, because of the amount of space, there is ample room for movies, songs, podcasts and lots of apps.
Design
The size and weight of the 3rd Generation iPod Touch is unchanged.  When compared to the iPhone, this unit is slimmer in size and certainly easier to hold for my daughter.  The use of the Touch is intuitive, and there are numerous 'screens' that can hold 16 apps on each page.  This is essentially just like an iPhone when it comes to WIFI and Bluetooth capabilities.  Side by side comparison, the Touch edges out the iPhone 3GS for loading apps and connectivity to the internet.
Setting up connectivity with the wireless network (I use an Apple Time Capsule) is intuitive and I was up and running on the internet in less than 1 minute.  Web browsing can be facilitated through portrait or landscape mode.  Applications can be directly downloaded into the device.
Quality of the movie resolution is excellent, and this makes a good travel companion for long car rides or cross country airplane rides.
Applications
There is a base of applications that come with the Touch, such as a calendar, mail, voice memos, Notepad, Photos, YouTube, Google Maps, Weather, Stocks, Clock, Calculator, Safari and the App Store.  With so many apps being released daily, there are apps for any category that you can imagine.  
However, to facilitate this as a learning tool, I have installed applications on Hindi, the World Maps, Presidents, a Dictionary and Thesaurus, Radio Disney, a TV Guide (iTV), Voice Over IP application, Movie Times, and guides to planets/constellations.  Additionally, she has Quick Office which allows her to type her stories on MS Word.
OS 3.1.1
She has a Vista Laptop; however, I run a Macbook Pro and sync her iPod Touch with that.  With the new operating system which is already installed, there is greater flexibility for arranging apps right through iTunes.
Pros
Ease of use/Intuitive
Excellent battery life
Tons of apps
Latest iPod Touch Operating System
Cons
No built-in internal microphone
No integrated camera, unlike the iPhone 
Overall
I am very happy with my purchase.  This is a great entertainment system, allowing the user to utilize the device for music, movies, games, organizer, internet access, and so much more.
This has to be a part of your life.  It has changed how our family entertains ourselves.