ID: B002QE3G72-R1YEE4JG6J256N-A3A4U74PQFQD5L
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VAIO-VGN-Z880G-13-1-Inch-Black
ReviewerID: A3A4U74PQFQD5L
ReviewerName: Douglas J. Caruso
Date: December 16, 2009
Helpful: 10 of 10
Rating: 4.0
Title: VAIO VGN-Z880GB
Content:
I purchased this laptop in late October 2009, shortly after Sony released it with Win 7 Pro, attracted by a number of feature advantages over a comparable, but older, Dell.  I travel a lot and wanted a lightweight, full power laptop that could also easily dock and serve as my desktop PC.  This laptop does that.  I particularly like the switchable graphics card that allows me to drive my 23" LCD desktop monitor at full resolution connected to the dock via DVI.  The laptop's own screen is excellent, sharp and a pleasure to use.  I also use the laptops HDMI out to connect to a projector, via an HDMI->DVI adapter I bought separately for $5 on Amazon, and have had success connecting the laptop to hotel flat screens with HDMI and DVI inputs.  I also use the built in Verizon 3-G and it has been rock solid.  I feared built-in 3-G might not have the reach of my Verizon USB 3-G device, but it works great and its nice to not have to mess with the USB device or worry about it dangling out the side of the laptop when the laptop is on my knees waiting at airport gates, etc.  I also like the built-in bluetooth which I use with a Kensington Bluetooth Presenter mouse.  Again, nice not to have to mess with a USB dongle.  However, the VAIO's bluetooth has been a soft spot.  I get intermittent "bluetooth stack error" messages that Sony's tech support has been unable to solve.  They do not impair bluetooth functionality, but are a nuisance.  I've tested the GPS functionality and it seems to work fine, but I don't use it because I have a stand alone GPS.  Also, and this is a big sore point for me, Sony still wasn't offering an automobile power supply adapter for this laptop line when I last checked and couldn't give me a date when one would be available or even state that they will eventually offer one.  What good is a GPS if you cannot power the laptop from an automobile battery via the lighter plug-in?  A full charge on the standard laptop battery, in power saver mode, gives me 2+ hours at best and I'm not going to waste that capability running it as a $2k GPS!  More important to me, I don't like being limited to 2+ hours when I am traveling by auto.  I sometimes ride on longer road trips and with my 3G card could be fully functional, but for lack of power.  I don't want to carry a spare battery, which would defeat the benefit of a lightweight laptop.  The laptop is a bit noisier than I expected, having purchased the model with the solid state disc drive.  It's the fan that makes the noise.  On the flip side, it runs much cooler than other laptops I've used in the past.  The only other drawback is too few USB ports on the dock, forcing me to manually connect/disconnect some of my desktop devices to the laptop's own USB ports.  All in all, I am happy with it and do not regret buying it.  I am withholding one star because of the Sony's failure to offer an auto power adapter or resolve the bluetooth errors.