ID: B0028N7442-R2Z9LIYVZGA4GN-A6ORJ504BQZ9R
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Pentax-K-7-Digital-Shake-Reduction
ReviewerID: A6ORJ504BQZ9R
ReviewerName: Daniel Whang
Date: July 7, 2009
Helpful: 55 of 60
Rating: 5.0
Title: Major upgrade!
Content:
I had owned a Pentax K10d and have been wanting to upgrade for a while. I did extensive research on the Canon T1I, Canon Xsi, Nikon D90, and Nikon D5000. 
Pentax K7 won out in the end. I was willing to change systems, but the K7 is simply superior to everything at and below its price range. Even surpasses the ones that are a few hundred more as well. 
I travel a lot and wanted something light and weatherproof. during the P&S days, I ruined 3-4 cameras because of dust and did NOT want that to happen to a more expensive dslr. Pentax came to the rescue and offers a weather sealed body. So I can take photos where there's lots of dust and even in the rain! what other slr camera can you do that with? The Pentax K7 is the only camera within hundreds of dollars that can meet this criteria.
Of course having great image quality and autofocus abilities were critical too.  Yeah, the Nikon D90 might have great low iso performance, but it's a toy compared to the Pentax K7. Canons were nice, but they felt like toys... unless you go into the $1500+ range. the tight body of the k7 is a sheer delight. 
I got immensely frustrated by Canon and Nikon because I really wanted to switch over... mainly because so many of my friends have their lenses and I could borrow them... but I couldn't do it because Canon and Nikon deliberately trip their cameras so that it doesn't cannibalize their other cameras. Also, they want to make more money by putting in the stabilization within the lens instead of the body. So you have to get a stabilized lens - which is a lot of more money. Pentax ain't nasty like Nikon and Canon. They put their best foot forward instead of little toes like Canon and Nikon with their stripped cameras. 
admittedly, one of the major problems with my K10 was the low light autofocus. it was hard to take shots with my 1.4 prime in a dimly lit room. but that problem is now gone! the k7 autofocus is quick and accurate. an additional bonus... one of the reasons why i hate flash is because it disturbs the people around you, but the loud shutter sounds of slrs are a distraction too. but with the k7, i think it has the quietest shutter of all slrs! this is a huge bonus when trying to take pictures without disturbing people around you. 
all the cameras that aren't full frame are similar in image quality. some have more noise and more detail (like the pentax), and the others have less noise but less detail, but the differences aren't very significant. so it comes down to the value and the feature set. and this is where the Pentax K7 BLOWS away the competition. you might be a little turned off by the $1300 price, but at that price, there's NOTHING that comes even close.