ID: B002OL2PLU-R2DJDRWUA1QIGA-A3G0GOHJC6AGQK
Category: MP3Players
Product: Archos-32-Internet-Tablet-Android
ReviewerID: A3G0GOHJC6AGQK
ReviewerName: Andrew J. Valencia
Date: February 21, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: A remarkable device
Content:
This product was apparently so bad that Amazon stopped carrying it for a while!  But its tremendous capacity and Android OS kept me interested, and I assumed that many of its flaws would be addressed by the time it was available again on Amazon.  The short version is that I was right, and after several weeks of ownership I love this device more than the day I bought it.
The Android OS, now at 1.6, is a very slick mobile experience, and is a pleasure to navigate on the Archos 5's beautiful screen.  While the Android Market is not installed on the device (I have no idea why), it is easily found online and with that in place the full "Google Experience" with marketplace and incredible voice and mail integration.
As a media player--the original reason for the purchase--the audio quality is excellent and the support of OGG and FLAC formats shows how the Archos folks really do understand and support the full range of audio enthusiasts.  With an amazing 500GB, my own extensive music collection fits directly on the device--so I never again have to pick and choose what will be at my fingertips!
Stability has been quite good; I have not yet had a freezeup during actual use.  If you're looking for minor annoyance, it will happen with things like sometimes you can't wake it up if you undock it while it's asleep.  Once or twice it wouldn't associate with my WiFi Access Point until I configured WiFi off, then back on.  These again most often were associated with travelling with it, then coming home and cradling it for recharge.  I'm pretty sensitive to software flakiness, but this has all remained well beyond my own pain threshold.
I can't tell you about videos--it just isn't something I have any reason to access on a mobile device.
But as a mobile device with unprecedented media capacity, incredibly broad audio support (including Internet radio), and all the diversity of the Android software ecosystem--this is the device to watch.  I love it.