ID: B002P3KMVC-R2CIO1P2FVQ1UY-A37QQ42VQ89BDE
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30A-X5-Light-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A37QQ42VQ89BDE
ReviewerName: B. Wilson
Date: March 13, 2010
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Perfect for me
Content:
This is the 3rd ASUS I've purchased and I like each one better.  The 12" was just too small; the 17" was just too big.  This 13.3" is just right (I feel like Goldilocks).
I use it for work.  No significant game playing (unless you include a slight addiction to FreeCell).  The machine is plenty fast (remember I don't play a lot of games), the wireless connection works well, the battery life is amazing (no, I didn't "test" it to prove I could get 12 hours, but I used the computer throughout a 5 hour car ride and when I arrived the battery indicator indicated I had more than 50% left), and on and on.  I was tentative after reading the reviews that talked about the overly flexible keyboard (because I do type a lot), but my conclusion after two months is that it's a bunch of hooey.  There is nothing negative to say about this keyboard.  It is full sized and some of the earlier problems are completely gone (on their smaller keyboards they tried to squeeze more space by shrinking the "shift" keys - now THAT was a problem).
Other things that still please me, besides the keyboard nonproblems and the long battery life, include the weight.  It constantly surprises me when I pick it up.  There is also an "instant-on" feature that starts up much more quickly than any machine I've ever used.  They seem to do it by not "shutting down" the computer when you close the lid.  It goes into a sort of "permanent semi-sleep" mode.  They probably have a fancy name for it, but from a user's standpoint, it's an excellent feature.  You still have to sign back in (no one can pick it up and just start using it without your permission), but it is quick and easy to do.
Finally, it might be worthwhile to note that this is the first review I've ever posted for a computer.  I've had ASUS, HP, Dell and a myriad of others (I'm not really a junkie, I just kept looking for something I liked better than what I had at the moment).  I've had 17", 15", 13", 12" and 9".  I've had 'em all.  Each had some shortfall.  Keyboards were too small, the machine was too heavy, the wireless connection was spotty - you name it, there was always a problem that continued to grow in its irritability.  After 2+ months that doesn't appear to be the case with this ASUS UL30A.  I don't know, check back in a couple of years and there will surely be something that has grown to irritate me - but not so far.
Enjoy.
PROS
Battery life
Weight (or lack thereof)
Full size keyboard
Speed
Start up speed
Screen resolution
Support (called ASUS with past machines; haven't needed to call yet for this one)
Price
CONS
Still looking ....