ID: B002ONCCCU-R3M3CCPVCR9E4G-A2CQ338GO4E99U
Category: Laptops
Product: G60-530US-15-6-Inch-Black-Silver-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2CQ338GO4E99U
ReviewerName: BlueCat
Date: February 15, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 2.0
Title: HP G60-530US Disappointing Reliabilty
Content:
After much research of both price and features, I purchased this laptop in January as a gift for my wife. With the rebate and the price was under $500 but now, just 1 month later, I could purchase an HP or Compaq (same OEM) laptop locally with more RAM and larger hard drive for less, so FYI, prices are still falling on these items. Still, I am pleased with the value of this item. I am, however, disappointed with the reliability of this particular model. In the first week of ownership the laptop once failed to turn on. This problem was noted on one of the previous reviews here but it was a singular comment and event, so I figured, what are the chances I would have a similar issue? Well, I did and it has now repeated 3 time in the first month of ownership. The laptop failed to turn on - at all. There is a power led next to the power adapter connector but except for that one light on, the laptop is completely dead. So I got a return authorization number from Amazon and prepared it for shipment back to Amazon for a refund. - But, before sending it in, I decided to a Google search to see if there was any information on this problem in general in discussion forums or this problem specifically associated to this make and model. It seems there there were some general references to this problem with other laptops and I summarized the (temporary) solution was to do the following: 1) Disconnect the AC Power adapter. 2) Remove the Battery. 3) Press and hold down the power on button for 30 seconds. 4) Reconnect the AC Power adapter and do NOT connect the battery. 5) Press the power on button. The Laptop should turn on. 6) After the laptop is fully booted on and you are at the desktop, do a normal shut down. 7) Once the laptop is off, reconnect the battery and power back on normally. This procedure has worked 3 out of 3 times for me. If I had sent in this laptop after the first failure occurrence there is a good chance the laptop would have turned on and I would have been charged for returning a working unit. So I decided to keep the laptop hoping that it was a singular event - It wasn't. After the third event of this problem, I contacted HP via their chat support (excellent support by the way) and described the problem to them. Here is basically what I was told to do: 1) flash the BIOS via the link they provided in the chat session. 2) trade the RAM sticks in their respective slots (in other words - swap their locations), 3) go into BIOS and run a hard drive diagnostic test to verify the hard drive is okay, 4) reset bios to default settings, and 5) do a complete system restore. Steps 3 and 5 are not a solution in my opinion because it is a system failure before the hard drive is even detected.
The first suggestion made sense but when I did the BIOS flash it was a retro upgrade -  taking the BIOS from revision F.53 back to F.52A. I was not told it was a retro upgrade. Since the power on problem rarely occurs, I've decide to stop there to see if the problem is resolved before proceeding to the next steps. If the problem occurs again, I will trade the RAM sticks. That's easy enough to do. If the problem still returns, I will try the other steps but after that I will be contacting HP Customer Service for repair or replacement of the laptop. Needless to say, I have spent many hours on this and am not a very happy customer. Hopefully this problem has been resolved but I thought it was in the best interests of other prospective buyers to be aware of this potential problem with this laptop. Good Luck.