ID: B002NVRPM0-R1NO8I3BZPHVHN-AP2CM9BX9QIGG
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Dyson-DC23-TurbineHead-Canister-Vacuum
ReviewerID: AP2CM9BX9QIGG
ReviewerName: D Town
Date: December 1, 2009
Helpful: 20 of 20
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great canister vac for an apartment or smaller home.
Content:
Let me start off this review by saying that I came from using a 20 year old canister Hoover for the last 9 years.  I bought it used and it's served me fairly well over that time.  One night about two months ago I was using it and saw that it just wasn't sucking anything.  No blockage.  The motor was just plain tired.  I needed a new vacuum.  I like canister vacs because they're easier to use attachments with and I can get under furniture with them.  Tugging them along can be a pain but, for me, it's a fair trade off.  I was tired of changing bags and Dyson's bagless design peaked my interest.  Also, it's cleanable filter meant no need to purchase filters in the future as long as I kept up with washing it every three months or so.  
First off, I live in a small house with medium pile carpeting, linoleum and hard wood floors.  No dogs or cats.  My old Hoover had a rotating brush head powered by a motor which was, of course, nice for the carpets.  Dyson does make a canister vac with a motor powered rotating head but, at 600 bucks, that was a little too pricey for me.  The recent DC 23 Turbinehead, at about 200 bucks less, sounded more attractive.  Like the Vacuum title says, its a "turbinehead."  Meaning its powered by air circulation.  I was a little worried that it wouldn't be powerful enough but, as I discovered, my worries were unfounded.  The Dyson has plenty of suction to get that head spinning fast enough that it ripped out some of the worn areas of my carpet.  
I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, though.  Lets start with unboxing. Upon getting the Dyson home it was time to open up that very attractive packaging.  The vac and it's accessories were easy enough to get out of the box.  It did require a little assembly and the very limited instructions weren't as easy to follow as many would like.  Nonetheless, with a little fiddling around I figured out the minimal assembly and was ready to go in about ten minutes.  The first thing I noticed was how light the head is.  Very easy and manueverable.  Note that the head does turn and rotate (as does the hose) which is one nice thing my old Hoover did not.  The tube length is adjustable too and being 5'09" I did need to extend it a little.  To turn the brush on and off there is large push/pull button on the head.  It is a little annoying to have to bend over to do this but not a deal breaker for me.  I found using the Dyson on hard surfaces to be super easy and smooth.  The canister does have some weight to it and feels solid despite the large amount of plastic construction.  Use on my medium to low pile carpet was fine with just one minor hitch.  I sometimes would find that if I pulled the head back too close to my standing position when vacuuming the "push" forward could get snagged for a second.  Another minor annoyance that I'll just have to get used to.  Attachements include a crevice tool and a smaller brush for furniture.  All attachments use snap lock buttons which is nice and the attachments from my Dyson portable vac work too.
   
Emptying the Dyson is a simple matter of pressing a button to remove the canister from the vacuum base and pressing another to drop open the bottom for discarding the contents.  Now, I live in a fairly rural area so all my emptying (hair, dirt and dust) has been outside but I would say that, if you have a big trash can, it wouldn't be much of pain to do it inside.  Storage is pretty easy since this is a canister.  I do agree with the other reviewer that the head's storage "hook" on the canister is pretty flimsy but works once the canister is stowed away.  I wouldn't trust moving it around though while its on there.  I'll try and give an update in a year to let you know how things are going but, so far, I really like my Dyson DC 23 Canister Vacuum and look forward to many years of use.