ID: B00267S7UK-R35W5LEKVYRSRI-A2VIQXYV6RD6LB
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-D5000-2-7-inch-Vari-angle-Body
ReviewerID: A2VIQXYV6RD6LB
ReviewerName: Contributing Author
Date: January 12, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Awesome!!
Content:
I did a lot of research before I decided to go with D5000 - including going to BestBuy and other camera stores and handling the camera to make sure it feels right.  In the end I got the best deal through Amazon (even though a D5000 kit at Costco had an unbelievable deal). I choose not to buy a kit because I wanted specific lenses with the camera.  I wanted one lens that I can travel with without the need to change lenses and another that I can use primarily in doors in low light conditions.  I got the Sigma 18-250mm f/3.5-6.3 DC OS HSM IF Lens for Nikon Digital SLR Cameras and Nikon 35mm f/1.8G AF-S DX Lens for Nikon Digital SLR Cameras lenses.  I also got a Nikon SB-600 Speedlight Flash for Nikon Digital SLR Cameras and an Eye-Fi 4GB Pro SDHC Wireless Flash Memory Card EYE-FI-4PC to wirelessly upload pictures to my laptop (D5000 has built in support for Eye-Fi SDHC cards).  Last week Eye-Fi came out with Eye-Fi 8GB Pro X2 SDHC Class 6 Wireless Flash Memory Card EYE-FI-8PC that has more features and almost the same price (bummer!). I also got UV filters for both lens to protect the expensive lens glass.
The cameras I compared before buying were, Nikon D90, D60, Canon Rebel iTL, xTi, etc.
I have used it for two weeks now with great results.  Camera is very easy to use, I still have not looked through the manual and have been able to find advance setting easily.  The auto-focus with both the lenses is very fast (faster if using the view-port than using LiveView).  I still have not been able to find a camera case that I feel good with - that is compact enough to easily carry around and I can get my essential accessories in.
One big factor for me for selecting this camera was the swivel lens.  Being a big guy, I run into scenarios where I do not have clear line of sight to the subject I am capturing and have always wanted the ability to move the camera higher or away from my body to take great shots and the swivel LCD does a great job at it.  My tipod mount has not had any problem with restricting the swivel movement, but I have seen it at a store, where the tripod mount was huge and restricted the LCD movement.
Again - overall highly recommended camera.