ID: B002JPITY8-RKZGU8OWAJI03-A1MO18DRGB1YP5
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Video-MP3-Player-Platinum
ReviewerID: A1MO18DRGB1YP5
ReviewerName: J. L. Villanueva "Sniperman"
Date: January 21, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: awesome
Content:
ive had only one zune before buying my zune hd, the old brown 30gb zune, albeit a limited edition zunemasters version but still :P
ever since the touchpad zunes came out i have considered upgrading, but never did because of the cost and my zune 30 worked great (still does) when zunehd was finnally released i did not think i would upgrade since its only 2gb more than my zune, but after seeing it, i just fell in love, and knew i must have it.
its such a sexy gadget, it looks great and it feels great in your hand.
after using it for a while there are a few gripes i have with it.
first, the tuning of the readio can be a lil iffy, not properly scanning for stations and sometimes very hard to fine tunue what station you want.  the hd radio feature in it self is amazing.
another thing i dislike about the zune hd is the ability to shuffle all pictures in slideshow mode, i was able to do this with my zune30 but now that feature is gone, no idea why.
i also miss being able to change the main menu's backdrop just like i did with my zune 30, the only background you can change now is the lock screen, and you hardly ever see that, would be nice to customize my main menu again.
the on screen keyboard takes a lil bit getting used to, but it works faily well, specially in horizontal mode, its almost impossible for me when the unit is vertical, the letters are just too small, but the unit does have a type of spelling correction in it that helps out a lot.
lack of apps, as of this writing the number of available applications are very limited, they are about 15 diff applications, which varie from games to twitter and a calculator, i hoep they add more applications soon.
thats pretty much all the downsides for me, everything i love.  i am very happy with my purchase.
the system has a very good sound to it, comes with an equalizer so you can tune it more to your liking as well.
the included headphones are ok but an upgrade would be encourage.
the oled is of course breath takingly beautiful, its gorgeous!
very solidly built
the touch screen is very responsive, everything seems to work just how you want it to.