ID: B002C7458M-R3C5DSMCWBR5H2-A1CNYV02J97BE0
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MB985LL-15-4-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1CNYV02J97BE0
ReviewerName: Allison Lebaron "mom of 2 little ones"
Date: September 23, 2009
Helpful: 11 of 12
Rating: 5.0
Title: Beautiful, Easy & Very Efficient
Content:
I have been eyeing Macs for a while now but didn't want to make the switch from PC because I thought it would be really involved. Well my PC finally died so I was forced to do it and I am SOOO glad I did.
I have had no problems at all converting my Word and Excel files and using them on my Mac because we downloaded OpenOffice for Mac for free, which recognizes all my files!
I also purchased the program Parallels ($80) so I can run Windows (while running my Mac operating system at the same time) for those few programs that are too pricey to repurchase for Mac right now.
I am not very computer savvy. I didn't know ANYTHING about Mac when I switched over and I found it the be incredibly intuitive, easy to understand, and addictive!! :) It did help that my husband was a bit familiar and could install Parallels, etc. 
What I love most is that the programs seem to be made to work with each other. For example when first adding people to my address book, I noticed it automatically added their birthday to icalander. And when I opened an evite in my email I could click once next to the party time and it automatically adds it to my icalander. My camera automatically recognizes my pictures and downloads them to iphoto which organizes them by day and is very easy to use. This goes on and on. 
For the reviewer that said the edges are sharp & rub his wrists raw....he scared the heck out of me and I almost didn't buy it because of him. Yes the edges are a bit hard but I have never, ever had an issue with this at all. I use it as a laptop and sitting at the desk, in the car, etc. and have had no problems with wrist comfort at all.
I highly, highly recommend Mac. The only problems I have are when I am running PC programs. :) Didn't realize how many popups and issues PC has until I don't have ANY AT ALL with the Mac. Simply the most amazing product i have every purchased.