ID: B002MUAEX4-R3CFGG8LNBOX4P-A2QU7UMW4T78Z3
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Panasonic-DMC-GF1-Four-Thirds-Interchangeable-Aspherical
ReviewerID: A2QU7UMW4T78Z3
ReviewerName: Starmount
Date: January 2, 2010
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: A wonderful camera for a happy father
Content:
I bought this camera mainly to shoot pictures and video of my 1-year-old baby boy. So far, I have shot a couple thousands of pictures and a couple hundred video clips. My wife and I are very pleased with the performance of the camera.
What I like about this camera:
1. The size is compact enough to fit it into my jacket pocket or hang it around my neck for all day long. Every time I travel with my baby boy, I need to carry a lot of baby care stuffs with me. I need a camera lighter and smaller without creating too much burden. 
2. The camera provides decent low light performance up to ISO 800 and ISO 1600 is still usable. My baby is still young and most time stays home. I, therefore, took lots of indoor pictures. The camera handles low light environments very well.
3. Shooting HD video give us plenty of fun. As far as I know, this is the only dSLR (except GH1) in the market that offers HD video feature with Auto Focus feature and limited but enough controls. Babies grows fast and they make lots of funny movements. I could not ask my baby to repeat a good movement when I miss one. The camera allows me to switch video mode easily when I catch the moment. It is nice to have both video and camera features in one machine.
4. The camera offers fast and accurate auto focus. Babies move constanly and hardly stay still. Occasionally, I missed a couple shots but most of time the camera gives pretty good results.
Of course, with the cost of $900, you can buy an entry level dSLR with cheaper price and better image quality due to the bigger sensor size as opposed to four-thirds standard. It all depends on what you need.  I have no regrets with the purchase because it fulfills all my expectations.
Check the link below.
[...]
You find some really good pictures and video clips taken by GF1