ID: B002M3SOC4-RJ1GXQ8TZ08ZW-A1X8YM80GSTO66
Category: MP3Players
Product: Apple-touch-Generation-NEWEST-MODEL
ReviewerID: A1X8YM80GSTO66
ReviewerName: B. A. Siepker
Date: March 28, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: A real computer in your hand
Content:
This little computer came to life right out of the box.  It was very easy to set up, connect to our home wifi, install all email accounts, obtain desired applications (free and fee), sync with itunes, connect with instant messaging, etc.  It is never out of reach.
The web pages and email pages display just as they do on the desktop computer.  The response to downloads and other web activities is as fast as our other computers.  I can't say enough about how well it performs its computer duties.
The touch screen responds so well, even when selecting a link that is very small using the tip of my finger.  Amazing.  Typing is a breeze in either the portrait or landscape mode.  Gaming is fun, particularly those using the accelerator.  Battery life is acceptable in normal use, but some games use more power so a recharge becomes necessary.
It is a good idea to purchase a secondary charger so it can be charged without connecting to itunes.  Often, it is desireable to charge without the need to re-sync with itunes.  This capability is very handy and was very inexpensive.
The unit is so small that it is a little hard to handle.  There is a fear that it would be easy to drop.  The answer was a rubber case that slips over the sides and back.  They do not interfere with the screen use and make it much easier to hold.  This is another inexpensive accessory worth considering.
The voice activation works well, but requires the use of the earbud headset that came with the itouch.  We purchased an adaptor that provides the mic and it can be used with our favorite headsets.  We already have noise cancelling, blue tooth stereo and clip-on headsets so these can all be used now with this unit.
So far, I am hard pressed to find any negative issues with this unit.  With the addition of the accessories mentioned above this is a great carry around computer, music player and game machine.