ID: B002FWMF8G-RDWLTN3DUYSNZ-AT3FXRUH0EHDF
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Mr-Coffee-BVMC-FM1-20-Ounce-Frappe
ReviewerID: AT3FXRUH0EHDF
ReviewerName: D. Michael Elkins "D. Michael Elkins"
Date: January 6, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: Fantastic product even for a non-coffee drinker
Content:
As a non-coffee drinker, I admittedly ordered this Mr. Coffee Frappe Maker thinking that my wife and son would enjoy it.  I knew that they were already daily users of a Mr. CoffeeMaker that we had received as a gift and that both of them loved the various coffee drinks available at Starbucks as well as those now available at McDonald's.
After going through the short learning curve necessary to make one of the Frappes described in the recipe book we produced our first Mocca Frappe and so I decided to give it a try.  Not bad, I decided.  Let's try one of the Chocolate Caramel ones.  Even better, I found.  The next day my wife and I tried the Black Russian (which really should be called a White Russian), which was also great.  Now this non-coffee drinker has become the biggest user of the product in our household!  
As advertised, it only takes about three minutes to make one of the delicious drinks and clean-up is a snap.  We will soon have exhausted the supplied recipes and will be eagerly searching for more.  The only thing that took some getting used to was the sudden loud start that occurs once the coffee has been brewed and the blades start crushing the ice cubes.  At least with a blender you have some control over when the blades begin doing their thing.  With this machine you just stand silently by knowing that at any second you're going to be hearing a very loud noise that is really shocking the first time that you hear it.  I do like the fact that you do have the opportunity to do some further blending at the end of the process if you don't think that the cubes have been crushed sufficiently for your taste.  I personally like to use straws with my frappe so be sure to have some on hand when you get your machine.