ID: B002MXPOYK-RA0J58GSZE22W-A2I1MFO4X3ZT4Y
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Nikon-Digital-18-55mm-3-5-5-6G-Accessory
ReviewerID: A2I1MFO4X3ZT4Y
ReviewerName: E. Olson
Date: March 6, 2010
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 1.0
Title: Buyer Beware!
Content:
The Nikon D3000 is an incredible product and I would buy it again in a flash!  But not from Cameta Camera.  Buyers deciding between buying the parts of the bundle should be aware of exactly what the bundle contains.
The product title indicates "EN-EL9a Battery" is included.  The product description indicates "All Brand New Items with all Manufacturer-supplied Accessories".  The technical details say "Spare EN-EL9a High Capacity Lithium-Ion Battery Pack".  "EN-EL9a" is a Nikon brand product code, and the product retails for $40+ on Amazon.com.
BUT...the actual product shipped by Cameta Camera is "ACD-273 REPLACEMENT FOR NIKON EN-EL9/EN-EL9a", an aftermarket battery valued at a small fraction of the Nikon battery.
I would never have purchased this bundle had I known it came with an aftermarket battery with far less value.  In fact I reviewed the product information carefully and confirmed that it was a Nikon EN-EL9a battery before placing my order.  Cameta offered a feeble refund of $3, which I rejected because it wasn't worth my time.  Customer service was poor.  I am regretful for ordering this bundle, as I could have gotten better value and better service by buying the Nikon D3000 elsewhere.
The camera bag is Nikon-branded and high quality.  It is on the large side and more suitable for use with 2-3 lenses than with just one.  I would recommend a smaller bag if you're just using one lens.
The DVDs are also Nikon-branded and they are great.  These are a great way to get started and I recommend them highly.  You can buy them separately here: Nikon School DVD, Fast Fun and Easy IV: Great Digital SLR Pictures - Featuring the Nikon D3000 Digital SLR Camera, Nikon School DVD - Understanding Digital Photography
The cleaning kit is just a set of low-quality plastic pieces that I am not likely to use.