ID: B002P3KMPI-R3GQNUDOB111PY-A28RCB4QJIGVNA
Category: Laptops
Product: UL50Vt-A1-Light-15-6-Inch-Black-Laptop
ReviewerID: A28RCB4QJIGVNA
ReviewerName: Michael McCray
Date: December 3, 2009
Helpful: 12 of 13
Rating: 5.0
Title: A few words about this laptop.
Content:
I have been playing around with this laptop for about a week now.  I dont know what people are doing to their keyboards. I type very fast using this notebook and do not see the complaint about it flexing.  
Now I am not new to computers or notebooks. I have believed the hype and bought an Alienware a few years back.  It was probably beautiful on paper and reality it was something else. 
This time around though. I was looking for two things.  Portability and good graphics.  I found this laptop with switchable or hybrid graphics.  It is quite impressive to say the least.  I enjoy the portability of it. First time I took it out of the house. I had to check the bag to make sure it was in it.  It is that light.  If you turn off the wireless radio when using it.  You can get over 10 hours of battery life and with the wireless radio on.  You average about 7-8. 
The heat situation in laptops is something else people talk about.  I don't think this even generates heat.  I have yet to feel any type of discomfort due to the heat issues.  You can not say that about the previous laptop.  I probably could have cooked an egg on the shell. 
I really dont mind the glossy shiny coating. It stands out and says to people walking by "Hey Look at me!"  If you want a dull leather wrappings that crack with age. Then go for it.  But i prefer the gloss. It serves as a reminder to wipe the laptop down and keep it clean.
The speed is great. Windows 7 is great. Its very responsive and you can hit that power button and be literally working on your computer in less than 30 seconds. Its that fast.  
On the warranty, You can apply for it online.  You dont have to send that card in. You can register and go about your merry way.  
On the graphics on it. I was running high settings in Dalaran on a heavily populated Warcraft server with zero lag.  Not even a bit. That is something that i thought was impossible.
Being this is the first generation in a new direction in laptops.  I look forward to seeing what ASUS can do with it.  I know Nvidia is planning more for Hybrid Graphics and we as laptop users can finally get the best of both worlds. So in two years or more. I am going to look forward into seeing what asus has to offer.  They earned a new customer and that loyalty is not misplaced. 
So take the chance on this laptop.  You will not reget it.
(Update)
Smooth Gameplay when playing Modern Warfare 2 and still no heat issues.