ID: B002CZQ6WW-R2R7SCUB0A7625-A206726B43ESHZ
Category: Laptops
Product: HP-Pavilion-DV4-1433US-14-1-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A206726B43ESHZ
ReviewerName: MamaDog
Date: August 12, 2009
Helpful: 37 of 40
Rating: 4.0
Title: um... Yes & No...
Content:
Overall, I like this computer. This is my 4th laptop and I gave it a recommendable "4," however it has one MAJOR drawback.
Strengths:
1.) Great price for the features you are getting (speed, size hard drive etc.)
2.) BIG positive - runs so much cooler! I'm sure all laptops have improved with changing technology, but I feel no heat coming out of this machine (which means it runs faster). I have my other laptop sitting next to it (about 1 1/2 years old) and it is so hot it could melt something.
3.) I got the white version and it just looks cool IMHO.
4.) Built-in webcam is a lot of fun (and practical too, I guess).
5.) Volume controls are so clear and accessible (my other laptops were difficult for my child to find, subjecting me to loud screaming car racing programs on too many occasions! They required the use of function keys + another that he couldn't remember or find quickly enough). This has the volume and muting options by itself right above the keys.
Drawbacks:
1.) BIG issue - You can see in the photographs on this page that the touch pad is positioned in the center of the machine, which you would think would make sense. However, the dang thing keeps sensing heat from my thumb pad/palm and jumping cursors all over the place (and I type so fast that I don't realize this until I've messed up my whole document!). I wondered why this didn't happen with my Gateway from last year so I compared. The Gateway laptop has the touch pad centered below the space bar and the letters on the keyboard so that... BRILLIANT... the touchpad is lined up nicely in between the hands as they rest on the home keys and type away. I have no idea why HP wouldn't try things out first and discover this on their own. Because of this, I have spent extra money on a cumbersome external keyboard and mouse (which sort of defeats the purpose of having a portable contained laptop).
In fact, as I type this review, I can't tell you how many times I had to redo what I typed because it jumped around to different areas of the message. If you plan on typing a lot, you could hit the easy-to-find turn off the touch pad button, but that can be incredibly annoying if you have to keep switching back and forth.
Also part of the whole touchpad feature... although it is sensitive when you don't want it to be (i.e., sensing your palm's heat), it is not sensitive enough when you want it to be (i.e., using the touchpad to click - you often have to tap your finger 3 or 4 times).
Something to remember if you buy this (and you work off a network)...
There is a network button that doesn't look like a button at all. Once I couldn't get my internet to work for a whole day and kept trying different things. I finally decided to touch this little red antennae picture light on the panel to the right of the volume controls. As I clicked it, it turned to blue and everything went hunky dory again. Apparently it is a quick-disconnect network button (for security I guess, but a pain in the butt if you're not aware of it).
This computer also comes with a remote, which looks and sounds cool, but I have yet to figure out a use for it. I think you need to subscribe to a television type service and then it can become your main television. It also could be used for running dvds, etc., but it seems unnecessary to me.
I got this other product to work with it and I love it! --Bamboo (Small) Pen Tablet with Pen Only Use this as your main mouse then it all works great.