ID: B002MSJFKO-R2V2NYPJVHTXXV-A3284KYDZ00BZA
Category: CoffeeMachines
Product: Bosch-TAS6515UC-Single-Serve-Twilight-Titanium
ReviewerID: A3284KYDZ00BZA
ReviewerName: Erich Maria Remarque
Date: October 25, 2009
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Amazing taste.
Content:
Tassimo coffee tastes truly amazing. So far I've tried Gevalia Signature Blend, Starbucks House Blend, Gevalia Espresso, Gevalia Latte, and Gevalia Cappuccino. The cappuccino is my favorite, though plain espresso is also good.
Gevalia Signature Blend, on the other hand, is the worst, and I would recommend that you avoid it. 
Tassimo coffee does taste CONSIDERABLY better than vending machine coffee, or coffee made on those cheap $20 coffee makers (like the one I had before this :p ). It's comparable in taste to what you get at Starbucks (I am not exactly a coffee connoisseur, you know).
One important thing: If you register your brewer at [...], you can get two free packages of T-discs (one package of your choice, and one sampler package with 8 different T-discs). I registered mine last Wednesday, and the free packages were shipped on Friday (so ignore the disclaimer which states that they will ship in 4-6 weeks). I selected the Milka Hot Chocolate package to see if it's any good.
I would suggest that you read the manual thoroughly, so that this 200 dollar coffee maker performs at its best. It took me about 30-45 minutes from opening to the box to making my first cup. Yes it takes longer than setting up an ordinary coffee maker, but it's definitely worth it. And this is no ordinary coffee maker either.
The LCD screen is cool, and makes this machine "look" more high-tech than it really is. There is a progress bar, but it's not really useful, since there is always a "Please Wait" message displayed on the screen right after the progress bar reaches 100% (and there is still coffee dripping on to the cup). 
It's very easy to operate though. If you just woke up and simply want a cup of coffee without any fuss, this machine is great. You simply place your cup into the cupholder, insert a t-disc, and press the button. This can all be done in matter of seconds.
Overall, I really like this machine.
UPDATE: Milka Hot Chocolate arrived via mail yesterday, and it tastes average to me. You can make a tastier drink on your own by mixing hot milk and pure cocoa. Additionally, the sampler package includes the following T-discs: (1) Seattle's Best Henry's Blend, (1) Maxwell House French Roast, (1) Maxwell House Morning Blend, (1) Seattle's Best Breakfast Blend, (1) Gevalia Signature Blend, (1) Gevalia Signature Crema, (2) Gevalia Signature Blend Decaf. 
I don't understand why they included so many "Gevalia Signature" coffees in the sampler package, considering that they taste the worst. Maybe it's random, and everyone receives different samples?