ID: B00305HS7U-R1FY0J2MYLEB6V-AWENYAXC8CTE6
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-P505D-S8000-TruBrite-18-4-Inch
ReviewerID: AWENYAXC8CTE6
ReviewerName: David Dressler
Date: February 8, 2010
Helpful: 44 of 48
Rating: 4.0
Title: Good, with reservations
Content:
I hate laptops.  The idea of a computer you can misplace is anathema to me.  When I had to buy a laptop, therefore, I essentially bought a desktop with a carrying case.  That, in a nutshell, is the 18.4" Toshiba Satellite.  It is far too heavy to really be considered "portable."  It is big, powerful, has a gorgeous screen, and generally does a very nice job of trying to fool me into thinking I have a desktop computer.
The keyboard lights up, which is a very nice feature.  The keys are full-sized and easy to press.  The biggest drawback with the keyboard is the series of multimedia buttons on the side of the keyboard.  They are FAR too easy to press accidentally, which means a stray finger can unintentionally mute your sound, change the volume, dim the screen, etc.  Also, pressing one of those buttons results in a loud beep, even if the laptop is on mute.  
One of those annoying buttons on the side of the keyboard is for "eco-mode."  Despite the fact that the laptop has an 18" monitor which, at the time of my writing this, is the largest monitor for any laptop on the planet, Toshiba has somehow managed to earn an "Energy Star" rating for this behemoth.  The eco-mode dims the monitor somewhat and stops the keyboard from lighting up.  In bright sunlight, this mode is unacceptably dim.  Otherwise, it worked fine.  Even without eco-mode, however, this computer somehow manages to typically use less than 75 watts of power, which means it uses about the same energy as one incandescent light bulb.  Quite remarkable, when you think about it.
Despite the "Energy Star" rating, the battery life on this laptop is pathetic.  Coaxing even an hour without being plugged in is a stretch.  DO NOT buy this laptop if you plan to use it routinely in places where plugs are scarce.  As for heat, this laptop runs remarkably cool.  Even after several hours of intensive use, it was cool enough to place on my bare legs.  
The speakers are Harman/Kardon, which is shorthand for "much better than your typical laptop speakers."  I used to plug my laptop into my stereo system at home, but I found that that was absolutely unnecessary.  Even for hardcore gaming, the speakers did an adequate job by themselves.  
The best feature of the monitor is its size.  The picture is crisp, although it had trouble in direct sunlight.  It renders at 780, not 1080.  My understanding, however, is that to truly appreciate a 1080 resolution, you need a large monitor--like 37"+.  I certainly never have had any complaints about picture quality, even when streaming movies from Netflix.
There are connectors all over the place, including an HDMI input, which means you can hook your laptop to your HD television and watch video from it.  This is a nice feature; I use Netflix streaming video a lot, and it made it simple to watch the video on my larger TV set. Also, one of the USB ports has a neat feature that allows you to draw power from it even when the laptop is turned off.  This means you don't need to turn on your laptop in order to recharge your phone.   
The touchpad is large and easy to use.  No complaints there.  I am not a huge fan of touchpads (once again, my anti-laptop snobbery rears its ugly head), so I used a bluetooth mouse most of the time.  The bluetooth functionality on this laptop is very good.  
Toshiba sells this as a gaming computer.  This is something of a misnomer.  They have a true gaming laptop, the Qosmio.  A quick glance at the specs of this computer makes it clear that it is really a high-performance computer, and not perfectly suited for gaming.  The graphics card is decent but not great, and the hard drive is a little slow.  That said, most games will play on it.  I had no trouble with even some of the latest titles, such as Dragon Age: Origins.  The biggest problem was that there would be a longer-than-appropriate pause when the game would load a saved game or enter a new area.  Once the game actually started, the graphics were acceptably smooth.  I did not test it on some of the real computer-killers like Crysis or Fallout, since I am not a first-person shooter kind of guy.  I did play some online games like Guild Wars and World of Warcraft, and was pleased with both the wireless connection and the graphics.    
To sum up...
PROS: Monitor, Backlit Keyboard, Powerful, Great Speakers
CONS: Multimedia Buttons, Battery Life
Is this the right laptop for you?  It depends on your needs.  If you want a portable computer that can be taken anywhere on a moments' notice, then you need to look elsewhere.  If you are looking for a desktop replacement, or a high-performance computer with decent gaming capability, this may be your next computer.