ID: B00318CG96-RK0H3L9YB3JX2-AG43VR50N17W3
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV4-2167SB-14-1-Inch-Laptop-Black
ReviewerID: AG43VR50N17W3
ReviewerName: kadairh
Date: March 19, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 1.0
Title: Had problems with this laptop..
Content:
This is the only time I've ever had to return an item for Amazon, and in particular a computer ever. I could have just been unlucky but there seemed to be a weird glitch whenever the screen timed out and I had to enter my password again, it would flicker so I couldn't enter it and had to shutdown to be able to get back in again. It appeared to be a conflict with the fingerprint reader, which I hadn't set up at the time, but I'm only guessing. 
That would have probably not been enough for me to send back - I would have tried sorting it out with HP support - except for that when I downloaded the latest MS patches, the computer wouldn't let me boot into windows again, and needed a complete re-image job. Again, could have been just unlucky and MS patches can be a bit problematic but with both combined, I felt there may be something really wrong with the pc and sent it back.
The only other complaint I have, which was something I hadn't picked up at the time of evaluating it on the web, was that I couldn't control the volume by pressing a button on the laptop. It had to be done either by the windows software or by using the remote - which would have been good if I could have been able to tell when the remote was on, but I couldn't which was frustrating.
Otherwise, if the first two problems had been non-existent then I would lived with the third one, as it is a nice laptop and it met the spec that I wanted.
So hopefully I was just unlucky, but my review here anyway just to make potential buyers aware.
Finally I would just like to say how FANTASTIC Amazon return policy is - I got the full refund and the return shipping, which made up for a lot of frustration - thank you Amazon you've made me even more a satisfied customer than I was already!