ID: B003AG7N4C-R32OWL9K07E6PG-AJ0UTQVG7ARJN
Category: Laptops
Product: eMachines-E725-4520-Pentium-battery-DVD-super
ReviewerID: AJ0UTQVG7ARJN
ReviewerName: bassman
Date: March 13, 2010
Helpful: 17 of 17
Rating: 4.0
Title: works fine for a cheap laptop
Content:
I bought this about two weeks ago when it was on sale for under three hundred bucks.  I have been using a Macbook Pro for the last 4 years, which is great but which is also my wife's computer.  With the kids and I  also trying to use her computer I figured it was time to pony up for a second laptop.
Pluses:
1. Price
2. functions just fine for internet, watching DVDs, You Tube, Itunes, etc. no noticable difference in quality of images or streaming from my high end Mac.
3. Costs less than a netbook, has a dvd player/recorder.
4. Battery life is actually very good - 4+ hours so far for regular surfing.  video knows it down to about 3 hours.
Fairly solid feel to it for being a hunk of plastic
Back has all sorts of access panels for people that want to change out the hard drive or add more RAM
My Age of Mythology game works just fine on it.
Minuses:
#1 gripe  - no HDMI port.  Bummer.  HAs some cheesy aavi port but I haven't bothered to figure out if I can convert that to HDMI.  Whoops on their part, but then agin, this thing cost me less than most netbooks.
Speakers are lousy.  If you mess with the EQ and SRS Wow you can get it to an aceptable level, but out of the  box they sound like they are tin cans.  Fine with headphones.
Keyboard is okay - does not have a high quality feel to it. easier to type mistakes than on my Mac.
Windows 7 is...... nothing more than XP with a couple of the bugs fixed and an interface that makes it harder to find things if you are used to XP or 2000.
Boot of programs is a bit slow. I think this could be a WIndows issue more than a hardware issue.  
Ovberall - works just fine for a cheap laptop.  don't need to pay twice as much if all you do is surf the net and watch TV on it.