ID: B0030INLSW-R1DXSYU5I9ZRGZ-A1FGMHLPN4OCHY
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-L505-GS5037-TruBrite-15-6-Inch
ReviewerID: A1FGMHLPN4OCHY
ReviewerName: Angel L. Rodriguez "angelr1076"
Date: April 27, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 4.0
Title: A nice laptop for the price
Content:
This is my first laptop so I can't compare it to anything I've had in the past; however, it was supposed to be a back-up for my desktop, but it turned out being my main p.c.  First off, the photos of the laptop do it no justice.  It looks a lot sleeker and sturdier when it's in front of you as opposed to the photos I've seen on the internet.  The speakers are weak, but the audio output with headphones is pretty good.  Plus, the sound card has built-in software that allows you to make quite a few adjustments to tweak the sound quality.  There are only 2 USB ports which I think is pretty weak.  Toshiba could have found space for at least one more port.  For some reason, this laptop refuses to read my new USB swivel flash drive.  It works on my desktop and my friend's laptop, but not this one.  Just a small gripe. It could be a software issue.  The laptop is pretty quiet with the exception of the side fan blowing heat buildup from the CPU on the left side of the unit every so often.  Although, it's hardly noticeable.  The screen is a nice size and it's a pretty light laptop considering the size.  I love that it has a 10-key keypad, too.  I tend to use that often.  I also like the size and feel of the keyboard and the buttons are very responsive.  I never liked touch pads so I'd always complain about this feature.  It's responsive, but it's still a touch pad. For that, I bought a separate mini mouse from hp.  I like the i3 processor a lot.  The CPU is never bogged down when I'm running multiple programs.  The Wi-Fi card is also great.  My wireless access is always speedy.  It works well with my wireless router.  One drawback is that the video card cannot be upgraded.  I believe graphics are handled by the CPU.  I have played Left 4 Dead 2 with all the settings maxed out and it runs perfect, but GTA IV will not work at all.  Although GTA IV for the pc has some ridiculous requirements to run smoothly, I shouldn't expect an entry-level laptop to run it at all.  Lastly, the battery-life was a key thing for me.  I read one review that mentioned it was 3-4 hours.  I've only gotten 2 hours on average.  Although I do play games on the laptop often, that may be a reason as to why it drains quickly.  I'm considering buying a 9 or 12-cell for more life.  
All in all, I really like this laptop a lot.  It does everything I need it to do and actually does more than I expected.