ID: B0032FOKXS-RBY41M9VMTUIR-A2JW269KB13V6V
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30Vt-A1-13-3-Inch-Silver-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A2JW269KB13V6V
ReviewerName: P. Purcell "Love my Kindle"
Date: February 6, 2010
Helpful: 9 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: Light, Powerful, Cost Effective 13.3", a "Must Have"
Content:
I have been following the 13.3" laptop market for the past year waiting for someone to offer one with a powerful video card at a fairly low price. ASUS has done it with the UL30Vt! This is the second ASUS we have in our household and it definitely does not disappoint -- the build quality is as good or better than the other name brand laptops we have in our stable and I traded a 14.1" HP for this. I do not regret it.
Pros:
 - Light -- I can carry it one handed anywhere I go and I'm not worried about dropping it. 
   It is like carrying a spiral notebook!
 - Great video card -- The laptop automatically switches between an intel video chipset 
   (low power demand) and a powerful NVIDIA card when as you plug and unplug the laptop 
   into the powercord.
 - Great screen -- the HD screen is awesome and looks better than others provided by other 
   well known brands. 
 - DDR3 Ram -- blazing fast and low power usage.
 - Intel Power efficient processor -- while the intel chip is rated below 2.0 Mz, it runs 
   faster than my 2.6Mz chip on my work laptop that also has DDR3 memory. Don't know how, 
   but it gets better "Experience Ratings". Also, you can overclock the chip using ASUS 
   software, but I haven't needed to.
 - Cool -- the machine runs cool. I have never had it become uncomfortably warm.
 - Battery life -- battery lasts a long time. Have put in a 7200 RPM HDD to replace the one 
   provided by ASUS... and the battery lasts 10 hours or more.
 - Looks -- holy smokes, looks cooler than my daughter's school MacBook Pro. I cannot 
   keep her off my machine.
 - Keyboard -- I was a bit leery of the 'chicklet' keyboard as I learned to type on a a 
   "Selectric". However, the keyboard supports my heavy typing style and hasn't slowed me down.
Cons:
 - A bit more 'bloatware' than I expected, but most was ASUS software to try to make the 
   machine more 'user friendly' Had fun figuring out what to turn off...
Overall?
  - A great buy and I'm glad I waited. There are at least two other named brand laptops that offer a similar laptop 
   (switching video cards to save power) but they run at least twice this price or more. ASUS created a winner here...
   ... and I'm the ultimate skeptic of computer hardware.