ID: B00318CGBE-R3SB4XHXPXHTWO-A3OFEQO923SZ7S
Category: Laptops
Product: Compaq-Presario-CQ61-420US-15-6-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A3OFEQO923SZ7S
ReviewerName: Willie E. Jetter "Computer Aided Design"
Date: March 27, 2010
Helpful: 5 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: CQ61-420US Super Computer on a Shoe String Budget!
Content:
If you're looking for a nice laptop that can perform beyond the average expectation of a low budget laptop then this is the computer for you. Of course there are numerous other high end models to be had if the funds are readily available, but this one works well on a number of levels for, budget reasons, personal home use, as well as on a professional level. If pushed it will accommodate!
I've read a number of reviews that stated it comes with only 2 megs of ram but the unit I purchased from "Office Depot" actually came with 3 megs of ram installed with the ability to upgrade to 4 megs. As a side note: installed were one 2meg ram chip and another 1meg chip in the only two slots available, so of course the single meg ram chip was a waste once I upgraded it's slot with a new 2 meg ram chip to have a total of 4megs. But no worries though as it was well worth it for the increased application speed and was easy to do.
As a bonus this laptop also comes with an additional 128MB (Megs)or cache memory for smooth video streaming and high definition playback whereas others at this level do not offer the same.
Since the original purchase I have also upgraded to "Windows 7 Professional" from the original home version initially installed as an "OEM" (Original Equipment Manufacture). The professional version allows much more application versatility and unlocks more of the operating systems existing (and hidden power). The battery life is average but good while the display screen is brighter and crisper then most.
It can and does run many high powered memory hungry software applications very well and simultaneously if you choose. Just to name a few, Adobe Photoshop CS, AutoCAD, Microsoft Word, Excel, Publisher, Power Point, Roxio video/music/photo production and editing software and MORE! (All of which are not necessarily included except for a trial version of Microsoft Office and Norton Anti-Virus application suite). It also comes with a very nice DVD/CD light-scribe drive, and easy internet access with the built in Wi-Fi for quick mobile internet surfing on the go anywhere there is wireless internet access.
And NO! It does not have a video camera but for the power you get at such a low price it is easily added for a nominal cost if you shop around. This unit runs circles around my older Dell workstation originally built for the same or similar task! I've owned it now for several months with no problems while having purchased an extended 4 year warranty that allows me to upgrade to the latest unit in the event of the systems possible failure, even if that's four years from now! (This may be an "Office Depot" deal and no I do not work for Office Depot. I just shop there a lot).
All in all it's an excellent laptop for the price though once funds are available I'm sure to upgrade to an even more extreme power house from the likes of "HP" to suite my growing digital needs/speed and desires. You can't go wrong here especially if you purchase the extended warranty where offered. By the way HP and Compaq are one in the same in case you didn't know. The HP models just offer the higher end hardware for increased power and performance just not for those of us on a "Shoe String Budget"!