ID: B003ES5GWW-R3CCX6O4XU2NJI-A8BDA29CD3ZDN
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Video-MP3-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A8BDA29CD3ZDN
ReviewerName: M. Atkinson
Date: September 16, 2009
Helpful: 8 of 9
Rating: 4.0
Title: Pretty Darn Good!
Content:
Pros: Slim, Sleek design, OLED Screen is beautiful, sounds better than the iPods.
Cons: Zune Marketplace, Transferring videos from iTunes, Smaller screen vs. Touch.
I really like this. I bought the 16gb Zune HD, because I don't have much music to put on it (92 songs, some episodes of TV shows I burned). It's smaller than I anticipated. The screen is no where near the size of an iPod Touch, but the color on it is AAAAAAAAAMMMMMMMMMMMMMAZING! It's really beautiful, so beautiful that after awhile, it's size didn't matter that much. The sound is better than the iPod touch in that you hear things in the songs you wouldn't hear otherwise in any iPod. The music now has more detail. The only grip I had with the Zune HD as far as sound is the volume limit is 1-30 (I'm on 21 now, but that's loud enough for me). I transferred most of my iTunes collection to the Zune HD, except for 9 videos (which I know are all DRM free). For some reason, Zune can't pick them up, I can't drag and drop them either. If someone can help me out with this, I would really appreciated it.
Now, the thing I hate the most about the Zune HD is the Zune Marketplace. Coming from iTunes, I expected to buy what I wanted. Now I have to buy points, then I have to use those points to get what I want. And sometimes the songs I want aren't available for download, or you have to BUY THEM WITH MONEY! Which defeats the purpose of the point system. This is so furstrating! Oh! I also hate the earbuds that come with the Zune. They are really cheap and plastic. Luckily I have a pair of V-moda's which made the Zune HD sound incredible. But I like it, it just going to take some getting used to.
UPDATE: Unfortunately, I had to return my 16gb Zune to Best Buy because the battery would die rather quickly. I'm ordering online and getting a 32gb instead. The battery is supposed to be "better" on the 32gb (according to Microsoft support). I will write another review for the 32gb.