ID: B0031RG0V2-R339ROSRFU5VIL-AZ40M9LIJQJFC
Category: Laptops
Product: Gateway-EC1456u-11-6-Inch-Display-Laptop
ReviewerID: AZ40M9LIJQJFC
ReviewerName: Brian Carnell
Date: April 3, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: Nice compromise between netbook and full-blown laptop
Content:
Although it is not perfect, for the $600 price tag, the Gateway EC1456u is a nice step up from a netbook while still keeping the weight and size in ultraportable land.
Pros: the 500gb hard drive and fast processor mean fewer compromises. I have 80gb of files I need access to in my Dropbox and it was nice to watch that all transfer without having to worry about filling up the hard drive.
This machine is also relatively fast, given the weight and relative lack of excess heat even when going full bore. I read on some sites that running games on the integrated Intel graphics was iffy at best. I installed my addiction of the moment - World of Warcraft - and was able to get 15-20 FPS in populated areas like Dalaran and 20-30 FPS in non-city areas at full-screen resolution. Ramped the graphic back a bit to 1024x768 and I was hitting 40 FPS. Tried a bunch of lower end games off Steam like Torchlight, and they ran fine too at more-than-acceptable frame rates.
Cons:
- the keyboard is not nearly as good as other reviews would lead you to believe. I can touch type at 150wpm and the keyboard took some getting used to. Yes it is full-size, but the keys are completely flat which makes it hard to tell at times which key you're pressing -- slightly smaller keys or even a chiclet style keyboard as on some of the Toshiba netbooks would have worked much better.
- as in most small notebooks/netbooks, the trackpad and buttons are crap. I just turn them off and use a wireless mouse instead, though, so I assumed that going in.
- I really couldn't care less about this, but if you do be warned -- the case is fingerprint smudge city.
Overall:
I am extremely happy with this laptop. It really fits the bill as an ultraportable laptop that is a lot more powerful and fully equipped than a netbook, but still in the 3 pound take-it-anywhere weight range.