ID: B0031M9U6O-R3OR0BVQVR2QXW-A2JV5FP6HO1YBP
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Aspire-Timeline-AS1810T-8459-11-6-Inch
ReviewerID: A2JV5FP6HO1YBP
ReviewerName: Simpleton Peck "Electronics Junkie"
Date: January 27, 2010
Helpful: 13 of 13
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent Mini-Notebook/Netbook
Content:
First want to say, if you wanted to get the Acer Timeline AS1810T-8638 and found that it's no longer available, you're in luck.  This is the same exact computer(minus the bluetooth), just with a different number on the back end.  The specs are identical.  Now on to my review. 
Startup was very easy and quick.  Only took about ten minutes to get it off the first initial boot.  I have to say I'm pretty impressed with Windows 7 so far.  I've used XP and Vista in the past so my knowledge of windows is extensive.  It took a bit to get used to, but after about an hour of playing around with it, I'm fairly comfortable navigating the new operating system.
Performance of the computer is excellent.  It shuts down and starts up lighting fast.  I think the 4 gigs of ram helps out a lot.  I own another netbook with 2gb of ram running an atom processor, and this Acer just destroys it in speed.  Granted its size is a bit bigger at 11.6 inches compared to most netbooks at 10.1, but in my opinion I'd rather sacrifice a little size for faster performance.  I'd also like to point out how thin and light the computer is.  I can see it being very easy to take around with you wherever you go.  The nearly full size keyboard is a plus as well.
Quality of build is solid too in my opinion.  I'll give Acer that.  In the past their notebooks creaked and just felt cheaply built.  This one feels very solid and the keyboard is very smooth.  No wiggle of the keys and each key stroke feels natural.
I've heard people complain in the past of a loud fan on notebooks, and this one is very quiet.  I hardly ever notice it.  I'm also impressed how cool it is sitting on my lap.  It doesn't feel warm at all.
As far as ports, it has 3 usbs, hdmi, vga, card reader, microphone, and headphone.  I think this is very sufficient for almost anyone.  The lack of a cd/dvd drive might be a turn off for some, but it's to be expected with a notebook of this size.
Storage should never be a problem with 320gb.  Even with all your music, pictures, and videos, I think it would be hard to fill this completely up.
Battery life:  It's supposed to deliver around 8 hours and from what I've seen online that should be about right give or take so lugging around the power cord shouldn't be necessary.
Overall, I'm very impressed with this computer.  I think Acer really has a winner on its hands.  Its light, has a ton of storage space, 4gb of ram, and runs for about 8 hours (though I haven't confirmed this) without needing to be recharged. How can you go wrong?