ID: B00313JXL0-R8J8440B0H7XX-AMGUWDM3XPEEB
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-A505D-S6008-TruBrite-16-0-Inch
ReviewerID: AMGUWDM3XPEEB
ReviewerName: M. Alexander
Date: February 12, 2010
Helpful: 15 of 17
Rating: 4.0
Title: Bad Webcam, but still Great Value!!!
Content:
Review for the A505-S6004
This laptop looks great out of the box and you will be pleasantly surprised by the speed at which windows 7 boots initially. The screen is properly bright and the speakers do a wonderful job for the size that they are. It is not until you start to use it that you will notice the inherent drawbacks that its beauty hides.
First thing you will notice is that this thing attracts fingerprints so quickly its not funny. Just typing this review alone and I am sure the police will get a full set of prints if they needed it. :)
The next problem i noticed while on msn live messenger. As soon as you start up your webcam, you can see where they saved money in putting this thing together. Its aesthetically pleasing to have a webcam that is built "flush" into the lid but they threw all the functionality of it right out the window. I'm not exaggerating here....THE WEBCAM IS THAT BAD; it has so much noise and no colour correctness AT ALL. You will appear like a Vampire to the person who is receiving your webcam feed. My girlfriend has one of the L505D models from toshiba which is cheaper than this model but the webcam in her's is at least 3 times better.
What this model lacks in webcam clarity and resistance to finger prints it makes up for with Battery life. Switching this thing to "eco" mode takes off the LEDs lighting the touch sensitive media control buttons and the "SATELLITE" logo, and also dims the backlight on the screen. In this mode it will achieve roughly 3 1/2 hrs battery life, give or take a couple of minutes depending on the work your doing. The L505D can barely manage past 2 1/2 hrs on battery.
In short
THE Pros:
+ Good Battery Life
+ Good Sound
+ Great Value for the money
+ Bright Glossy Display (its a Pro for me)
+ Piano Black Fusion Finish Looks great
+ 500GB Hard drive (only 426 free initially; that's still alot)
THE Cons:
- Bad Webcam (don't even think about this machine for "Social Notworking")
- Finger Print Magnet (Piano black finish just shows up every little finger print or scratch)