ID: B00303G9QS-R1WDSAO8LP25CD-A2MG0D45C5ZUH1
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Timeline-AS1810TZ-4008-11-6-Inch-Olympic
ReviewerID: A2MG0D45C5ZUH1
ReviewerName: Wyatt Crabtree-Scott "Amateur electronics fet...
Date: February 5, 2010
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Awesome so far!
Content:
Well, I've had this little baby for 3 and half days and I love it! It's fast, Windows 7 is surprisingly slick and once I get used to it I'll probably like it even more. The notebook itself is nice and "netbook" sized and very light. This was one of the only models of notebook/netbook that had all the things that I wanted:
-Small and portable, not 13-15 inch screens. This 11.6" screen (measure diagonally) makes the whole thing about the size of a sheet of paper!
-Windows 7 64-bit.
-Atleast 2GB of ram and room for more (This comes with 3GB ram and supports up to 4GB)
-1080p HD Video support and HDMI port (which worked perfectly with my Samsung LCD, plugged right in and was simple as can be)
-Keyboard is full-sized
-Best part of all which is what made me buy this over the ASUS Eee PC Seashell 1201N-PU17-SL 12.1-Inch Silver Netbook - 5 Hours of Battery Life is that the battery life is MUCH longer! The advertised 8+ hours isn't too exaggerated, I got about 6 hours out of my first charge, and it easily could have been over 7 hrs if I had adjusted the settings a bit. The "balanced" power setting which changes depending on your battery level kept it perfect for a long time, but I turned up the brightness after it started dimming to conserve energy. No problem, it's now set to stay where I like it.
I also like how fast it boots up from sleeping or actually starting up. Windows 7 is going on my Desktop computer for sure.
I wasn't too crazy about the touch pad, it seemed too slow or overly sensitive, but I'm sure if I wanted to get used to it. The pinch-zoom and scroll features are really nice though! I still bought a mouse with it though, for when I'm able to use it (Logitech V220 Cordless Optical Mouse for Notebooks (Dark Silver)).
The keyboard might take a *little* bit of getting used to, but that's fine, what keyboard doesn't take a little getting used to? I should mention that it isn't really set up for any kind of graphics. I haven't tested any games on it since I don't plan on using it for anything much other than school, but from what I read at Newegg it's not going to play many 3D games, and certainly no newer ones at all. But, it can play Blu-Ray if you have an external BD drive. Pretty cool!
I will try to update this once I've owned it longer and field tested it more. So far so good, no regrets all. Buy this laptop! (also available in Black, but I dont want to be constantly wiping fingerprints off it...no prints on silver)