ID: B0034G4YQS-R5UTVGB34FDW1-AB0IGPGA74KJL
Category: Laptops
Product: Gateway-NV7922u-17-3-Inch-Laptop-Cherry
ReviewerID: AB0IGPGA74KJL
ReviewerName: Christopher P. Guebert
Date: March 8, 2010
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great computer at a great price
Content:
I, like many others, searched high and low for laptops. I looked here and I looked there. I went to Micro Center and still wasn't satisfied with the prices. To get a similar laptop from Hp or Dell, you're talking a grand easy. The weight isn't bad in my opinion, considering it's a 17.3 incher. The screen is amazing. The led backlight really makes the screen pop. The amazon website had listed a lower, incorrect, screen resolution. It is in fact 1600 x 1900 and looks great. The buttons are pretty quiet when pushed and having a normal keypad to the side is nice. It doesn't have firewire or an expresscard slot but really, who cares. Having USB 2.0 pretty much makes that obsolete in my opinion. Firewire is not freakishly better, also in my opinion. I have a strong anti-apple product mindset also so this computer is really nice for me as it is extremely fast. I have a dell 3.2 Ghz dual core desktop with 3gb of ram running xp professional and it's a snail compared to this thing. I run Traktor Scratch Pro on it and it runs flawlessly, not skipping a beat and when you check the cpu meter it's hardly registering any stress on this machine. It's also so quiet I honestly never notice it making noise, not even a little. Sometimes, if it's quiet around you, you'll notice a little toot but really this thing whispers. The heat hasn't been an issue at all as well. I'll have it running for hours watching streamed movies and then set it on my lap and it's lukewarm at best. I really have nothing bad to say about this laptop. It's got HDMI for your audio/video feed to your HD. It doesn't have s-video but seriously I checked and on amazon it costs like 1.50 approx. for a vga to s-video adapter cord if you really want that feature. I'll tell you though, with a screen this lovely and large I think you'll have no problem watching movies right off this puppy. The integrated webcam and mic work seamlessly with websites. The sound from the speakers is pretty decent and if you get the right programs, you can adjust the volume even louder and they still sound pretty good for a laptop. I still hook up my amplified pc speakers while I'm at home and my wife and I watch a movie on it. I read the other guys review where he mentions having a problem with the USB drives. I've had no such issue and I'm guessing he just got a lemon. It happens and is understandable. I haven't had to deal with customer service, knocking on wood, so I can't give that a review. The multi-touch is kind of neat. Basically makes it easy to zoom in/out on any page, text, pic, and/or etc.. It's got dvd multi recorder drive instead of blu-ray but this also doesn't matter to me at all. They're not amazing enough nor cheap enough for me to give two squats of a thought to it until such time as it is the standard for everyone. Plus you can find an external usb blu-ray for around a hundred. The touch sensitive feature buttons up top of the keyboard area are neat and work really well, very responsive. Overall I seriously give this computer a near perfect score for my purposes. I love it and I hope it keeps kicking butt the way it has been.