ID: B003AG7N4C-ROS4FCWQP4CEY-A2A0FBLKJN4ZY5
Category: Laptops
Product: eMachines-E725-4520-Pentium-battery-DVD-super
ReviewerID: A2A0FBLKJN4ZY5
ReviewerName: W. freeman
Date: March 21, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Get it while it lasts
Content:
Since Emachines has been taken over by acer, they run these what i like to call sneak attack sales. There is no warning and no way to really find out unless you run into the listing on Wal-mart or Best Buy, but usually by then its to late. This is an awesome deal, Acers are great, some of the laptops here in the last year or so have been less than stellar but they still sell great, and last a long time. Reason being they took everyone by storm with the netbook, and then bought out gateway and Emachines, so i think they lacked a little on there own machines. So onto this one, i got this at Wal-mart for 298, they use to have the one with the Celeron 900 which was suprisingly fast and hard to beat. Well it has been beaten, the price on that one went up to 349, even 449 in some cases and this one probably will. It has a great processor even though its an older dual core its still that(a dual core), great for multiasking or whatever u wanna do really. Upgradable to 4gb is great but i find 3 to be totally sufficient. Also i already have a super powered gaming desktop, so there's no need really for much more. So yes this can't be beat, for 298$!! So check out your stores before they disappear as i said by the time they hit the site they are usually gone. I'm outside typing right now using my wireless and it works flawlessly, no drops, no slow downs nothing! DVD burning is great, made the restore discs in about 45 minutes. Speakers are tiny but loud. And the screen is very bright and easy to see even out here in the sun. I've had many people who own Dells, Hps, and Toshiba's and say this is still definitely there favorite to use, even the pros. I work on computers and i must say i'm really impressed and i may even snag another to keep for backup, for another day or another person. Don't miss this one, you'll be missing out big time. Students especially, its perfect for mobility. Btw right now battery life is about 3hrs and 25 mins, and i've been out here half an hour!