ID: B0032FOKXS-R33K9I96F0TUH2-A1J06WJ6JS0WJJ
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30Vt-A1-13-3-Inch-Silver-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A1J06WJ6JS0WJJ
ReviewerName: A. Markey
Date: December 4, 2009
Helpful: 15 of 16
Rating: 5.0
Title: Killer laptop
Content:
Look and Feel (4/5):
Besides the brushed aluminum lid (which is very good looking by the way), the plastic body feels very sturdy. I'm not the biggest fan of glossy plastic (would prefer matte), but it doesn't make the laptop feel or look cheap like other laptops.
The keyboard is nice to type on, much like the newer generation macbook / macbook pros. The trackpad is definitely unusual with it being made out of the same glossy plastic as the body, but once the initial shock of not having a usual trackpad surface is over with it's a pleasure to use. The multitouch is as good as you can get on a non-apple laptop too (that's not saying much, but I commend asus for the addition of it).
Power and Performance (5/5):
This is the first ultra portable computer that I've used that has very little compromise in terms of power and performance. Out of the box the 1.3ghz processor is actually overclocked by Asus to squeeze out even more power. I am a developer and can run multiple development environments / surf the web / run iTunes and the computer does not skip a beat.
I also love the ability to dial up the power of the computer when I'm not concerned about battery life and dial it back down when I'm trying to conserve. The Asus guys really engineered a great machine here.
If youre wondering how the Nvidia dedicated graphics performs, I just fired up Call of Duty Modern Warfare 2 and played it at 1280x768 without a hitch! Again, no compromises there with bad gaming performance.
Durability (Initial thoughts: 4/5)
While it's not an aluminum unibody design, it feels quite sturdy. I've only had this a few days though, so we'll see how it holds up, but it feels alot better than most Sony laptops I've used in the past if that gives any indication. Also the aluminum lid feels fantastic and sturdy when opening / closing the laptop.
Value (5/5)
There is no reason to pay over $1000 for an ultra portable anymore. Get this, and spend the money you saved on an SSD hard drive to really make this computer scream. The power / performance / price ratio for this machine is rediculous. All other ultra portable manufacturers need to step it up bigtime, because Asus came to play with this laptop!