ID: B00305HS7U-R1H6N056ATVR66-A3SMUB1RCUGISB
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-P505D-S8000-TruBrite-18-4-Inch
ReviewerID: A3SMUB1RCUGISB
ReviewerName: Greg Mardis
Date: March 28, 2010
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 5.0
Title: Wonderful, big computer with alot of nice features!
Content:
When my older HP Pavilion laptop with 17" screen starting giving me trouble, I started looking for its replacement.  (It no longer recognized DVDs, quit communicating with the printer, and just really started to make me angry. Too many nights working on it trying to get it to do the basics.)  Granted the HP was maxed out with the most awesome of bling factor, TV tuner card, 2 remotes, lightscribe, everything you could ever need in a laptop or a desktop for that matter.  So when I started to look, I knew what I used and what was really important to me.  Since I work on a 15" screen at work, I knew I wanted a really big monitor, yet did not want a desktop. Portability was very important, but weight was not. Though I do sit on the couch with my computer alot, it was still not as heavy as my lap dog who weighs 65 lbs!  I can say that the computer doesn't run hot at all, even when sitting on my lap.  The fan is also surprisingly quiet.  Keep in mind the battery life is short.  Thankfully, I have alot of outlets around!
I wasn't really sure about Windows 7, seeing as I was upgrading from Windows XP.  However, I really like it, especially the new functions in Windows Media Center.  This software is user friendly and has a bunch of neat features for everyone.  
One of the reviewers complained about fingerprints.  This computer does show fingerprints. Its an issue, but almost all laptops have it. But, I have to say that I absolutely love the feel of the keys compared to all the other laptops (4) that I own.  The size of the keys are very well sized.  I have small hands, but I believe these keys would accomodate most people.  Plus, they are silky smooth to touch.   
One of the more important features for me was technology similar to Lightscribe.  Toshiba uses Labelflash which is similar.  This allow you to create DVDs and CDs with labels that are actually printed on the disc itself, not on a paper label.  Although I have yet to actually burn one,  software seems relatively easy to use.  Labelflash discs aren't readily available at my local Wal-Mart, so keep that in mind before you start working on a project.  
All in all,  I am very highly pleased with this computer, especially at its very reasonable price.  It is doing the most important things on my checklist and more and more!  BTW, some reviewers commented that finding a case was hard.  Please note that I found a nice case on [...] for a very reasonable price, with no tax and free shipping.  I got a case for my computer and Flip Ultra HD for about $50.00.  Bargain!