ID: B00313JXN8-RDHUY6SJHETJN-AKS2IKAFK6M7S
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-A505-S6040-TruBrite-16-0-Inch
ReviewerID: AKS2IKAFK6M7S
ReviewerName: Belle E. Rempert
Date: March 21, 2010
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Very happy with this computer for my needs, great price.
Content:
This computer is an absolute great price for what it offers, and it delivers. I am a photographer who needed to upgrade to a computer with a faster processor and one that could handle the workload I put on it with CS4, and this one is great. Compared to my old laptop, this one zips right through loading enormous raw images and and processing in photoshop with ease. I spent a while looking to find a computer that offered everything this one does in a price range I could afford and also had a bigger screen size. My old laptop was a 17", so this one was a little bit of a downgrade in regards to screen size, but its still good enough and an acceptable trade off for the specs of the computer itself. I also do a bit of gaming, WOW particularly, and it runs better than my husband's computer in regards to graphics..which he isn't necessarily too happy with. :)
As for two other reviews about some negative aspects of the laptop:
One reviewer mentioned the DVD drive was extremely noisy. It is a little loud, I will attest to that, but I wouldn't say anywhere near as loud as I took from their review. I did not find it overly disturbing or distracting, and I could certainly hear the sound of the music or movie I was playing over it.
Another reviewer mentioned how he hated the computer because of the keyboard. I think the keyboard is great. I have no trouble feeling which key is which. Its bigger than normal though, or maybe, just the letter/numbers on each key are bigger than normal. I felt like I had ordered something designed for an older person or someone who may not be able to see well at first glance because of the size of the letters. The "L" is approx. 4-5cm long. So that was something I sort of laughed about at first, but now I don't notice it at all. I am picky about how my 'keyboard' feels, and normally would go to store and test out all the laptops, and if the keystroke didn't feel good to me, I would reconsider a purchase of any particular laptop. But I really like this keyboard, and I like the back-lighting, which I didn't have previously.
Overall, I think this computer is a steal what what you are getting.