ID: B0032FOKXS-R2X0ZMBWC364WJ-A1C9DGI642OWFC
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30Vt-A1-13-3-Inch-Silver-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A1C9DGI642OWFC
ReviewerName: Cristian Toader
Date: March 29, 2010
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 4.0
Title: Great Laptop, Good Performance, Great Looking, Some Flaws
Content:
This is a fantastic laptop. I have used it for two weeks now, loading up programs, playing games and just kicking it about to see what it can do. It can do a lot ! And I was happily surprised to see it perform adequate if not well in most areas. In turn for each consideration: Is it light and thin - Yes, at 3.74 it is both light thin, certainly lighter than a Macbook Pro (4.25lbs), but not lighter than a Vaio Z or Macbook Air, which are both 3 lbs flat. How is the scree? - A lot of complaints surfaced on the screen calling it horrible and lacking colour. The screen is just fine, full of color and certainly bright. Is it as nice as a Envy 13 or Macbook Pro 13, No, but it's not that far off to call it a deal breaker. People have made too much of this and I get the sense that ASUS has improved their LEDs in this version. The hard drive is slow, no question about it but large enough that if you don't absolutely pack it (75%+ usage), it is fast enough. Also keep in mind that a faster drive will also eat more battery, the conservation of which was important for this design. How is the processor? Very impressed with this little overclocking beast - I see the darn thing running at 2.1 sometimes, even though it's just a 1.3 - could be my imagination but it does overclock to 1.7 for sure. It's fast enough and I have Itunes, Photo Apps, Mail, multiple browsers open and everything still works just fine. The 4 gb of RAM I am sure has a lot to do with this. THEEE best part of the laptop is the video card. Holy Moly - for a machine this cheap, the discrete graphic card gives computers 2x as expensive a run for their money (before taking it all). It is good, a little too good for this machine. It runs games as well as my 512mb 8600M GT on my macbook pro - very impressive. The track pad is okay, not my favorite (yes, well inferior to macbook pros) but honestly, decent enough to use all day and once you get used to it, you'll get the hang of the multi touch. In summary, for $750, it's hard to get a better machine and since I have had a Dell and HP laptop die on me, I gave Asus a try. So far, I could not be happier.