ID: B0032FOKXS-ROJO4Q6X9OO72-A4KGNLV4R104Z
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30Vt-A1-13-3-Inch-Silver-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A4KGNLV4R104Z
ReviewerName: Lee McCoy "thereal"
Date: January 27, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: 4.5 Stars really!
Content:
This computer was exactly what I was looking for.  I was trying to find an economical thin and light laptop with a dedicated video card, fast processor, and a lot of memory.  This met the need.
The processor is only 1.3ghz but it says it overclocks to 1.8 or so.  4 gigs of ram is plenty.  500gb storage, more than my last backup drive!  The dedicated video card with the ability to switch it automatically or by a simple button is great too.  I don't game but I will be running some CAD type stuff and that should help out a bunch.  The hard drive is a little loud especially noticeable when in a quiet room, and only 5400 rpm.
It does feel a bit "plasticy".  I think it may be because I am used to a desktop keyboard.  The trackpad is integrated right into the case which is new to me but works great.  The button is one button with two sides and a little stiff but I am hoping that will wear in a bit.  The keyboard is fine, the right shift key is a little small and takes some getting used to.
The screen is very bright but does remind me a bit of the old dual scan screens as the angle you look at it must be corrected if you move it around.  The speakers are good too.
I have yet to find out how to get this thing to boot in 8 seconds.  It can't even resume in 8 seconds! Also I don't know how to get battery life to 12 hours, maybe on the dimmest mode and just sitting there.  Realistically I've gotten more than 5 out of it no problem, and haven't really messed with the battery settings.  
It is really small and light!  Overall I am happy with this purchase vs a macbook!  It will take some getting used to Windows 7 though.
Overall I would recommend this product if you're looking for fast, thin, light, dedicated video, and lots of storage.  For under 900 you can't go wrong!