ID: B0031ESTD2-R3UT2N4IXBJGRJ-A2EE0A41ZY24R7
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-T115D-S1120-TruBrite-11-6-Inch
ReviewerID: A2EE0A41ZY24R7
ReviewerName: M. Rojas "M. Red"
Date: April 21, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Toshiba T115D-S120.  Great mini-laptop!!!
Content:
I have had the Toshiba T115D-S120 for a month already and I am very satisfied with it.  First of all, if you buy a laptop like this is probably because you are looking something small and compact like a notebook, with a decent battery life but without having to sacrifice in capabilities.  In this laptop you will get exactly that.  I installed 2GB of extra RAM in the empty spot(to get 4 GB total) and it runs smoothly and fast.  BTW anybody can do this, is extremely easy, just make sure you get the right memory (it's in the specifications in Toshiba). About the aesthetic: It's very light but it has an extra inch in size compare with most notebooks (not a big deal really).  If you are worry for the battery life I would recommends to use the eco mode that saves a lot of power.  If you use it, you would notice that the screen is not very bright (uses about 25% of brightness) but it's perfect if you are working in a enough illuminated place.  I can get up to 4 hours with the balanced option and up to 6 with the eco mode surfing the internet, watching videos and downloading stuff. If you are just using typing in word you will get more.  It is true that it is a fingerprints magnet but come on it looks great and if you are careful enough you don't need to clean it very often.  The mouse is really good and all its extra features like zooming in and out and fast scrolling (similar to ipods) work fine.  The keyboard is not glossy as the cover surface so don't worry about that.  You get use to the keyboard very fast, since it's not as small as the notebooks ones.  
About the processor.  I think Toshiba did a really good job with these little machines.  It's fast, as much as my very expensive 14 inch core duo hp laptop, so for this price (I bought it for 430$) you are getting a nice mini-laptop that you won't regret to carry anywhere and that gives you high performance.  I am an engineer and I even test it using Matlab and running heavy programs and it has still a good performance.  As I said, I just did it as a test since I use this laptop for entertaining purposes.  The fan is not noisy as other laptops and the computer does not get very hot.  I was surprise by this fact since some people comment about it in previous reviews.  I can used in my lap and it feels okay.  
Another thing I like about this laptop is the screen.  This LED display is just beautiful.  The colors and the resolution is astonishing.  
Okay so far so good.  Now, this is a great laptop but it is not perfect!  The speakers are really bad, and I want to emphasize this, "really bad".  The volume is extremely low.  If you connect earphones or even other speakers to the laptop it sounds great and you can use a 50-70% of volume but if you use the build-in-speaker sometimes you won't hear very well music and videos even with a 100% volume.  I don't know what happens with this but Toshiba should fix it for future models.  It depends on the video or music but in general for most of the things that one listen these speakers are not good enough.  Usually I use earphones so for me is not a problem but it's something to consider.
Well I hope this helps.
To summarize, this is a great laptop with a lost of capabilities, excellent for entertainment, travel, work, etc.  If you don't mind the speakers It's a great deal.