ID: B0039825JE-R1QYJ2GU5PZ62M-A2A0FBLKJN4ZY5
Category: Laptops
Product: Republic-Gamers-G73JH-A1-17-Inch-Gaming
ReviewerID: A2A0FBLKJN4ZY5
ReviewerName: W. freeman
Date: April 28, 2010
Helpful: 0 of 11
Rating: 1.0
Title: Asus has gone down.(Best Buy Version) So its the same.
Content:
I was so excited about all the versions of this machine that i almost bought one before they even released them in the U.S, well now i'm glad i didnt. Asus to me now it a joke, i've had about 3 different machines all with about the same crashing, freezing, blue screen, bad wireless issues. Well this one is no exception with more problems than the others. The ATI 5870 is a joke, it barely runs Crysis on Medium settings without extreme lag, i also ran a benchmark test on Resident Evil 5 and got around 40fps, and drops down to 21!! Come on, this can't be right, also under the Windows Ratings Index for graphics it scored a 5.4, that can't be correct being that the GTX 260 scores a 6.7. Even when i upgraded the drivers it did the same thing, so something is seriously wrong with the hardware configuration in this machine. Also the rubbery finish seems nice until you use it for a while, then it starts to peel off, you can start to feel little rubber pieces brushing off underneath your palms!!! I have an Emachines i got for 298$, its flawless, no its not a powerhouse gaming machines, but it is fast, silent, sturdy, NEVER freezes, wireless pops up as fast as you can bring it out of sleep mode, and guess what, no such thing as the blue screen of death on it. So Asus has let me and a lot of other folks down, do yourself a favor and don't get this bomb of a laptop. Also i should mention the screen is just awful, not even LED back lit for 1199$, if it is i must have missed it. Save money, get a desktop, fix it up and game on it, they are still superb for powerhouse computing.
This is for the Best Buy Version, its the same computer with less hard drive space, lower resolution and less RAM and no blu-ray, still the same machine though.