ID: B00352LQSA-R1ZQLN8HEI5BV0-A21DUUYI2XEZQ0
Category: Laptops
Product: K52JR-A1-15-6-Inch-Versatile-Entertainment-Laptop
ReviewerID: A21DUUYI2XEZQ0
ReviewerName: J. Montgomery
Date: March 28, 2010
Helpful: 5 of 5
Rating: 4.0
Title: Nice notebook, but screen could be better
Content:
Kept this product on the short list (and it's sister, the A52JR, which is the same except for the black color scheme) while shopping around for a little over a month and finally determined this was probably the best bang for my buck. Bear in mind that I was looking for a relatively specific set of specifications: Core i5 processor or higher, discrete graphics (preferrably ATI branded) and a 15-16 inch screen. This Intel/ATI CPU and GPU combination is not terribly common, so this notebook seemed to fit the bill perfectly. Add to that the fact that I'm somewhat of a fan of Asus products, and this would appear to be a total winner. So far I've been pretty happy with this notebook. The performance is good for a home entertainment notebook, but it does have some weaknesses.
Pros:
Core i5 processor - Very quick and perfect for mainstream tasks and most multimedia needs. 
Discrete grahics - Practically a must if you plan on doing any HD video or casual gaming (which is really all this particular GPU is capable of).
Chiclet keyboard - Quite firm and very nice travel, at least for my typing style. Seperate numberpad is also a plus.
Stylish design - A pretty subjective thing but I find the matte brown palm rest and trackpad with it's "carbon fiber" pattern to be quite attractive. The darker brown design on the lid looks very professional as well.
Heat and noise - Both are minimal, and very well controlled from my observation.
HDMI port - Haven't tested it, but nice to have if you ever want to play a video or slideshow on a big screen TV.
Cons:
While the lid is attractive, it is a MAJOR fingerprint magnet.
Webcam - A little subpar, but still serviceable.
Screen - This one is a pretty big downer. I had read reviews prior to purchase which mentioned that the viewing angles left quite a bit to be desired. I gave it the benefit of the doubt, but it unfortunately turned out to be true. If you get it set and don't move around much, it's fine. But if you want to share a video or pictures on the screen with a friend, forget about it unless you want to keep moving it around. And although it's certainly capable of HD video, two things hold it back. First, the screen resolution (1366x768)is somewhat low for a screen this size. Second, the blacks on this display are definitely not as good as they could be, and this is where the viewing angles will get really annoying because if it's not set just right the video will appear blocky and totally wash out in darker scenes. This will really be major for a lot of people seeing as Asus appears to be marketing this as mainly an "entertainment" notebook.
Bottom line: While this is a very capable notebook for day to day things such as office tasks and the occasional video or light game, don't expect it to be a multimedia powerhouse, mostly due to the screen. Build quality is a bit of a mixed bag as well. Keyboard is good, but there is some screen flex. Body feels solid, but there are a few creaks here and there. But if you want some first hand testimony to it's toughness, I stupidly dropped it on it's side with the screen open (almost had a heart attack!)but it suffered absolutely zero damage. So take that for what it's worth. If the price seems too good to be true for a machine with this list of specs, this is somewhat the case. I'm retiring soon and wanted a notebook with enough horsepower to last me at least 2-3 years until I'm financially stable again so I won't have to look at getting a new machine any time soon. Will this meet my needs? For the most part, yes, but I'm not a gamer either. Would I buy it again? That's a tougher question to answer. For the price, I'd probably shop around a little more before settling as this doesn't quite live up to the quality I've come to expect from Asus, but it'll do for now.