ID: B0031ESWP2-R1HTOUSXHIPP18-A3T6ENKCS7GGHO
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV6-2162NR-15-6-Inch-Laptop-Up-Battery
ReviewerID: A3T6ENKCS7GGHO
ReviewerName: J. DREIER
Date: March 2, 2010
Helpful: 60 of 61
Rating: 5.0
Title: Relieved and Extremely Pleased
Content:
I bought this HP for my wife to replace her 3 year old Toshiba.  It's 100% her computer but she places everything technical in our lives on me and then holds me accountable for its performance.  My wife is brutal on electronics and her laptop is no exception.  The Toshiba had a VERY hard life and ticked along perfectly until the past few months.  After wasting $200 on a failed repair (hard drive) I decided it was cheaper to replace it than to nurse it along.  I initially went shopping for another Toshiba and frankly, I feel like I would be writing a 5 star review for a Toshiba if it hadn't come down to a $150 price difference.  I was able to use the competing Toshiba at a retailer, but when I went to Amazon I found this HP.  Nearly identical in performance and appearance; aside from a couple of keyboard control features they were the same.  
I bought the HP, Amazon shipped it FedEX and it arrived to Fairbanks Alaska in less than 48 hours (used standard shipping, nothing special).  She loves it, charged it up and it performs flawlessly and much better than my 8 month old Dell XPS (Argh, never again...long story).  I have not attempted to load Office 2007 yet, but suspect from my research on 64 bit systems, it will work fine.  Neither one of us cares for the bubble scheme and thinks it detracts from the professional look of the rest of the finish (petty, I know).
The mouse pad works perfectly and I particularly like the keyboard layout and feel of the keys.  I REALLY like the number pad without having to buy a 17+ inch system which is of course standard now.    
4 USB ports, 1 HDMI output, a great LCD screen and Graphics card...zero to complain about.  Oh, and Windows 7 works very well.
I'll report back if it doesn't hold up to the flagrant neglect my wife typically inflicts on her electronics, but as of for now she is rightfully treating like a shiny new sports car!