ID: B00303G9QS-R1N4LLOCJM85IC-ACC1QZ7QPB6RL
Category: Laptops
Product: Acer-Timeline-AS1810TZ-4008-11-6-Inch-Olympic
ReviewerID: ACC1QZ7QPB6RL
ReviewerName: Goat Herder "Goat Herder"
Date: February 10, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Awesome little notebook
Content:
Finally got my notebook (netbook?) and so far it has been great during the past 2 weeks of operation.
Boots up quickly, decent graphics and the keyboard is easy to use. I was hoping it would play an old game called Beachhead 2002 but it's a little sluggish. But I didn't buy it to play video games and wanted a traveling machine. Was thinking about the 10 inch netbooks but they sounded too small and taking my heavy 17" HP on trips from the Middle East back to the US takes up too much space/weight. Have yet to take it on the road but I think it will do all I need. 
I had already purchased the Samsung DVD burner (listed in the ad) in anticipation of getting a smaller notebook and both seem to work well together. Battery life running the burner is yet to be seen but I am impressed with it so far. Of course after running a bigger laptop with shorter life, anything would have longer battery power. 
One thing I'm curious about (emailed Acer but no reply) is the Bluetooth indicator and switch on the front. The instructions call out that it is for limited models but I wonder if it's a hardware issue or if software can be added to bring it to life. Currently using the IOGear bluetooth adapter with a BT Microsoft mouse 5000 and it all seems to work very well. 
This was a VISA rewards item to myself and as luck would have it, it was sent from Amazon to my Stateside address and then sent over. I still don't understand why Amazon won't ship electronics and some vendors have problems shipping to an APO address but thats just another rant. 
Availability of this laptop has been rather limited but I recommend buying this one or similar size unit. It's a great blend of performance and size. Not a speed demon but for a small laptop it's quiet, doesn't heat up (so far)and good performance so I'm glad I was able to get it. The cover design is pretty trick but I guess I was thinking the cover was aluminum as per write ups and the color in photos. Not bad plastic but I was hoping. The inside piece where the mouse is located is aluminum however. I hope this little jewel lasts for a very long time.