ID: B0030T17I2-RW3S49PU2OG8G-A1M453D4OTIFV3
Category: Laptops
Product: Alienware-M17x-2857DSB-17-Inch-Laptop-Black
ReviewerID: A1M453D4OTIFV3
ReviewerName: P. Orand "Tomcat Tweaker"
Date: March 8, 2010
Helpful: 8 of 10
Rating: 1.0
Title: Alienware... not all it's cracked up to be.
Content:
First off let me say my 1 star approval rating is based on my 1st Alienware system.
 The first night I got my Alienware M17x I had to call technical support because the Cyberlink Power DVD 8 software produced a series of horizontal lines across the middle of the screen. I was on the phone with tech support from 8:00pm-12:00 midnight the first night. Alienware Technical Support was very helpful and got this problem resolved but the bottom line; I was on the phone all night. The next day I went to a friends house to watch a couple of videos and before we finished watching them, all of my desk top icons had changed to a generic Windows format and were inoperable. This issue took over 8 hours on the phone with technical support to resolve. These system/software problems continued to persist and "evolve", as quoted by tech support, for almost two weeks. After two weeks of nothing but problems I had spent a total of about 40 hours on the phone with technical support. The last day of ownership of this system I spent 13 hours on the phone with Alienware technical support and customer service. One time that day after being on hold for almost an hour Alienware customer service hung up on me.
 After all these problems, and I've only mentioned a small portion of them, I finally got smart and contacted Amazon's five star customer service. Amazon gave me the option of a refund or replacement! I opted for a replacement because I believe this is atypical of what Alienware produces. I wanted to give them another chance.
 Just a little more detail about the excellent Amazon Customer Service.... I contacted them 4 March 2010. This was a Thursday, and it was mid afternoon. By Friday, 5 March 2010, they had a new Alienware system on it's way to me via Federal Express. By Saturday, 6 March 2010, before 12:00 noon I had received my new Alienware M17x. The Amazon customer service represenative I spoke with, 4 March 2010, even seemed genuinely concerned that I get some sleep after I explained to her I had been up 13 hours on the phone with Alienware tech and customer service. Amazon even gave me a refund for the return shipping after I called them and gave them the return tracking number. This was something that was totally unexpected. I checked with my credit card company online and the refund has already posted as of, 8 March 2010. Outstanding job Amazon!
 I've had my second new Alienware M17x system, Amazon shipped to me, for two days and I've done everything I could to check it for faults. So far this system seems to be totally problem free. I'll come back in two weeks or so and if it's still problem free I think I'll rerate it four or five stars.
 Alienware/Dell Customer service could learn something for Amazon.
 If you want to buy something from a company who will stand behind the products they sell Amazon is the best choice. I think they're better than Wal-Mart. Thank you so much Amazon. Your up there with the stars. You're stellar!!!
 Sincerely, Paul Orand