ID: B0035FZJHQ-R3UBLUTM6KFPJO-A862GY2W02UTM
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-T2i-Digital-3-0-Inch-18-55mm
ReviewerID: A862GY2W02UTM
ReviewerName: a reader
Date: March 26, 2010
Helpful: 4 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: First DSLR
Content:
I have had this kit for almost a week now and I couldn't be happier.  Prior to this I had only been using the canon SX10IS 'mega-zoom'-type camera, and other than a collection of film slr's I've never had a digital slr.
The settings are a good bit different than my SX10, both in placement and function, but it's very intuitive and I'm reading the user manual (a good habit my uncle impressed upon me).
With the SX10 I was addicted to using the articulated LCD because the viewfinder was so small and I like to be as incognito as possible and holding the camera lower down draws less attention.
So I was a little wary of switching to a fixed screen.  I got over that almost instantly.  First, the T2i's screen is huge and brilliant, and second because the viewfinder is quite nice and I realize the benefits of stabilization and composition when using the viewfinder.  When you're in viewfinder shooting mode the current settings are displayed on the LCD and when you pull the camera up to your eye this sensor turns off the LCD until the shot or shots are over.  It works instantly and perfectly.
I got a extreme class 10 sdhc card with 30 MB/s speed both for helping avoid pauses when shooting continuous and because I read you needed at least a class 6 in order to capitalize on the full-HD video function.
The kit lens, the 18-55 has less zoom range than I'm accustomed to but it's good enough to get me started.
I was going to add a fixed prime lens first but the low light capability on this camera has me considering getting an 18-200 or something.  I can shoot 1600 ISO in dusk with great exposure and no noise.  Even the 3200 shots look very smooth.  It does have to search a little longer for focus in low light (indoors or dusk).
The battery is a LP-E8 which nobody around here has in stock yet though it's available online of course.
The first charge out of the box took about 1:15 to display green for fully charged.  And with my excitement at having this I've been shooting like crazy with some flash (built in) and some live view, and the battery holds a charge for me all day with a 3rd to spare.  Still, I'd like to get another as a backup.
My jpegs are averaging 11MB straight off the card and I've not tried the RAW format yet.
When you turn it on, it comes on instantly and it's ready to shoot instantly.  I suppose this is typical of dslr's.  The camera just feels 'smart' like it's an artificially intelligent being.  I suppose the digic 4 plays a role in that. The pictures it takes are just outstanding and I'm very happy with it.
Maybe in a couple years I'll move up to full frame but this should provide excellent images for a long time.