ID: B0031ESWPC-R1IBW9DC9KKONA-A1B2T3EB47V4HS
Category: Laptops
Product: TouchSmart-TM2-1070US-12-1-Inch-Riptide-Argento
ReviewerID: A1B2T3EB47V4HS
ReviewerName: J. Whitaker
Date: February 22, 2010
Helpful: 44 of 46
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Convertible Tablet
Content:
First: My review is for a slightly different configuration of the tm2t. I have the upgraded processor, Core 2 Duo SU9600 (1.60GHz, 800MHz FSB) w/512MB ATI Mobility Radeon(TM) HD 4550 Graphics, and the 500 GB HDD. I've had it for a week now and the short of it is: I love it. I'd give it 4.5/5 stars if Amazon would let me. I rounded down to 4 stars as there are a few nitpicky things keeping it from perfect.
Second: I love tablets. My previous laptop was a Toshiba R15, but it was getting a little old and the battery was dying, so it was time to look around for another. So why not wait for the glut of slate tablets this year, such as the ipad or HP Slate? Well, I love being able to hand-write notes, draw and sketch, and yet still type for a variety of projects I use the laptop for. I love Microsoft OneNote (one of the few programs they really got right), and I'm not sure how well it would run (if at all, like on the ipad) on the slates, and I don't mind navigating with a stylus (sometime I even prefer it). Mostly, though, I really need to be able to type (a lot) for both work and home. Yes, you can get docks for the slates that let you type, but they seem clunky so far and I always liked having the convertible so the keyboard is always with you, and truth be told, I do spend more time in notebook mode than in tablet mode, but I still do have the option of running it as you would a slate. So choosing a tablet has much to do with how you plan on using it.
Pros:
-	First (and only, as far as I can tell) tablet with an option for discrete graphics. I've been waiting for this for years.
-	Very light and easily portable
-	Switchable graphics helps saves battery power, overall battery life is good
-	Large touchpad area
-	Sound is great for such a small machine
-	HP Touchsmart software 
Cons:
-	Occasional poor touchpad/touchscreen operation 
-	No physical lock to keep screen down when in tablet mode, screen can be hard to grab to convert back to notebook
-	Screen rotation is manual
Graphics: One of the main selling points for me was the option for the discrete graphics. As a previous tablet user, I had to watch while all the other notebook users got to play their games while I couldn't. Now, finally, my laptop can do everything I want. I'm able to play Everquest 2 on it, which is a very graphics-demanding application (I couldn't run it at all on my Toshiba, and I'm sure the default GMA 4500 Graphics accelerator would probably do the same). Yes, the settings are turned down to medium and it can run a bit choppy at times (I average  around 15 fps, and if that seems low, bear in mind EQ2 demands a lot more than World of Warcraft, I'm sure WoW would run at ~30 fps), but it runs, and I can play it easily. Other games ran perfectly, with crisp-looking graphics. If you want to be able to play some higher-end games on a tablet, this is the one you want. If you just want a purely gaming notebook, though, there are certainly better ones out there. One other plus: the graphics actually switch between low and high power states, depending if the laptop is plugged in. Basically this means for things like Everquest you're going to want to be plugged in, but it allows you to save battery life when on battery (you could keep it in high mode if you wanted, though). I didn't even see this advertised, but I thought it was a neat little additional feature, and I didn't notice any noticeable drop in graphics quality when in low-power mode (although EQ2 dropped to about 5-8 fps). 
[Update 3: Everquest is averaging better than 25 fps now, sometimes even in the 40's. I think the initial low numbers were due to a new expansion pack and lots of players. Even better news for the graphics capabilities on this tablet.]
Construction: The body is nice, the whole tablet is light without feeling cheap, and it's easily portable. My old Toshiba is a beast compared to it. I like that the touchpad is larger than other pads I've seen, even if it occasionally acts up (see below). It's amazing how much they cram into such a small space. There are plenty of ports (something I wonder if all the upcoming slates will have) including USB, VGA and HDMI.
Screen: This one I was really worried about. My old Toshiba had a 14.1" screen, and I looked at some similar-sized screens before ordering it, but I was afraid it was going to be too small to be able to use daily. The good news: it's not. Yes, it's definitely a small screen compared to many other notebooks, but it feels bigger than it is, definitely better than any of the 10" netbooks, and colors are sharp and clear, and I can operate any of the programs (like OneNote) or games just fine and without squinting. It's smooth with a glass feel to it, which is nice for using the touchscreen and I love writing on it far more than my Toshiba, but it does tend to reflect a lot.
Sound: the included Altec Lansing speakers are impressive for how small they are. Yes, you won't get much bass out of it, but music and sounds are crisp and clear, not tinny at all.
Battery Life: This seems good, if not great, but no different than any other laptop out there. I'm sure if you just let it sit there and not do anything you can get the advertised 9-plus hours. Regular use seems to be around 4-5 hours, though I haven't really put it to any tests yet, like running a DVD movie from an external drive. I'll see if I can get back on this. Certainly for running in tablet mode and surfing or watching video streams, I have no complaints.
Tablet: Speaking of which, I really like the HP Touchsmart software that came with it. It basically lets you use it as you would any of the upcoming slate tablets, with icons for watching local or streaming videos (such as Hulu and Netflix), viewing photos, surfing the web, etc. I don't know if HP will offer any Apps (which is supposed to be part of the big deal with the ipad and such), but it's great for stuff you already do. A couple complaints here, though. When you flip the screen around and put it in tablet mode, there is no latch like my Toshiba had to keep the screen in place. It's not been a problem yet, but a locking mechanism would have been nice. Similarly, when you want to flip the screen back up to notebook mode, you have to pry the two halves apart. There could have been a slight indentation to get your fingers under the screen to make it easier. Also, there's a button that lets you switch the screen orientation. On my old Toshiba you could set it to automatically switch when in tablet mode, then back when in notebook mode. If that's an option here, I haven't found it yet, although it always switches back when you go to notebook mode, so maybe I just haven't been able to find how to set it (the manual just says to rotate via the button).
Touchpad/touchscreen: My last complaint has to do with the responsiveness of both the touchpad and the touch screen. I can't tell if the problem is hardware or software based, but I though it worth mentioning, although I wouldn't call it a show-stopper by any means. I like that the touchpad is bigger than other pads I've seen, but it doesn't always seem to do what I tell it. Sometimes the cursor hops all over the screen while I'm just dragging my finger, while other times it doesn't seem to respond at all for a second or two. Other times it will zoom in or out seemingly on its own. It is a multi-touch pad, so maybe that's part of it and I just need to learn how to operate it better, but I don't think that's always it. Also, the touchscreen doesn't always seem to respond. For example, while watching a Netflix movie, you could press the pause button but there was a delay before the movie would pause, then when I pressed play, it didn't acknowledge the first press and I had to hit it again. I've tried pressing slightly harder or longer, but that doesn't seem to make a difference. I find myself pressing a button twice sometimes in order to make it work. Again, this might just be me getting used to a touchscreen, but I'm not so sure. They're both usable, just a little annoying and frustrating at times, and the touchscreen might be a problem if you wanted it purely as a tablet.
Summation: Any complaints I have, though, I consider minor. 4.5/5 stars. This is a great convertible tablet for those who are looking for one. No other tablets right now could match the specs (esp. with the discrete graphics) for the price. The Lenovo and Dell tablets were typically (...) more for their high-end  models to begin with, and you can get HP coupons and instant sales that can save you as much as (...) off their listed price, making it hands down the best deal for a tablet right now.
Update 1: After fiddling with the settings of the touchpad and making it less sensitive, it works much better now. Still occasionally jumps around, but I get that with every touchpad I've ever used, so that's probably just me. Also, I think the touchscreen has a "sleep mode", i.e. if there's no touch after a few seconds, it takes 2-3 touches to respond, but as long as you keep touching, it works fine (I'm guessing this is so errant touches won't click on something you don't want).
Update 2: Had this for two weeks now. Overall performance is great (though you'll want to remove some of HP's pre-installed software) and battery usage is actually quite good. I was able to watch a 2 hour-10 minute movie and only used 50% of the battery (my old Toshiba would barely make it to 2 hours, with the screen darkened). It actually determined I was on battery and ran it in a lower-power mode to conserve. I ran it again in the regular mode and couldn't even really tell any difference (screen was maybe brighter, but wasn't like night and day), although the screen reflection did get a little distracting at times. I really love the glass-feeling screen, particularly writing and drawing on it, though, so it's a trade-off I can live with. 
It would be nice if it had a physical volume control for when in tablet mode, but that's not a big deal. Also, in case you couldn't tell, it doesn't have a built-in DVD drive, so I bought an external. This wasn't a big deal to me since I rarely use discs anymore (and definitely prefer the weight savings it gives for portability), but something to keep in mind if you need it. 
Finally, after continuing to play with the touchscreen, it's the one piece of this I think keeps it from a full 5-star. The "sleep" function gets irritating as you constantly have to keep hitting it to "wake up" if you haven't touched the screen in about 10-15 seconds. As long as you stay within that 10-15 sec window, it works perfectly, but that's not really what you want in a touchscreen. If there are settings for it, I haven't been able to find them, and I've even emailed HP about it (no response yet). I would consider the touchscreen as a secondary or supplemental input device (say, in concert with the pen, which works rather well), but if you want something as purely a touch tablet, I cannot recommend it (unless HP comes out with a fix for the "sleep" mode). 
So, while I think the physical design could have used a few tweaks (volume button, screen rotation and button implementation, screen lock, touch/track pad operation), these are really just issues of convenience and preference. The overall performance, functionality and feel make it a great convertible tablet. I'll stick with my original 4.5/5 stars, especially when you look at other tablets out there for the price.
Update 4: Thanks to C. Brooks in the comments, there is a way to turn off the touchscreen "sleep mode". Directions are at the following site:
(...)
I have used this and can verify it works, and the touchscreen works great now. In fact, I'm rounding my review up to 5 stars now.