ID: B0034G4YQS-R25HWD7G3DR5DC-A2XIN2SVS56TAH
Category: Laptops
Product: Gateway-NV7922u-17-3-Inch-Laptop-Cherry
ReviewerID: A2XIN2SVS56TAH
ReviewerName: Jeffrey C. Strathearn "J. Strat"
Date: April 12, 2010
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great for the money
Content:
I've been using an old 12" Apple iBook G4 (1.33 GHz) for the last 6 years or so, it even spent a year in Afghanistan with me. But it was time to get a new laptop by the time I got back. I had been planning on getting an Apple MacBook Pro, but really it was going to be a lot more expensive than I really wanted to pay (plus Apple has been making some decisions I don't agree with lately along with their decline in quality). So I decided to go ahead and make the switch to PCs (I've been an Apple user since 1998). I thought I would just put Linux on it and call it a day. But I ended up with this Gateway after much research. I wanted something decently fast (the i5 is perfect) and with a fair amount of RAM (4 GB is great) and a large hard drive for all my music (500 GB is almost excessive, but that is a good thing). I thought a 15" would be a good size since I would never be able to get a 17" for the money I was planning on spending. But here is the Gateway NV79. It fit all my criteria and more. And the Windows 7 64-bit operating system is actually really good. Much better than Vista ever could have hoped to be. And the screen is extremely bright and crisp. So bright that I have to turn down the brightness to view it comfortably. I have not used the optical drive yet, so I really can't say much about the read or write times on it, but anymore that hardly seems like anything to worry about. The keyboard was a little awkward at first (remember, I came from a 12" laptop), but I very quickly became accustomed to it. I haven't used it without being plugged into the wall, so I also cannot attest to the battery life. The only real complaint I have is that it does not have BlueTooth. I'm not sure why they opted to omit that. I don't plan on doing any serious gaming on this machine, so the Intel Integrated graphics card does not bother me, but keep that in mind if you are a gamer planning on purchasing this computer. If not, I would certainly recommend the Gateway NV79 series. You get quite a lot for the money.