ID: B00361G0ZO-R1CVYHY81SLVL4-AFBC5E6MWE2J5
Category: Laptops
Product: Republic-Gamers-G51JX-X3-15-6-Inch-Gaming
ReviewerID: AFBC5E6MWE2J5
ReviewerName: JT "changes in latitudes"
Date: February 8, 2010
Helpful: 10 of 28
Rating: 2.0
Title: Nice Laptop, will see how RMA is handled
Content:
***update***
The laptop is actually still a 4, but due to Amz Customer Service lowering the rating, see below:
Wow, so the laptop is still nice, but can't say the same for Amazon customer service for issue #2.  After ASUS said that Amazon was responsible for the added items (Complimentary backpack and mouse), I sent that info to Customer Service.  They in turn emailed to say they could not replace items from a set and would send a whole new set out as replacement.  Got the replacement today and no backpack or mouse.  In fact the product page now has that line deleted from the description (I have a screenshot with it in there).  So I need to send the replacement back, but does Amazon provide a prepaid label....NO.  So now I have to take time away from work to find a mailbox store, pay to have the item (that should never have been sent, AMZ's mistake) and then ask them for a refund on shipping.  If they had just said the item description was wrong in the first place, no big deal, but now I have to jump through hoops to send them back something that should never have been sent....terrible service!  I am an avid Amazon shopper, but this is ridiculous, Newegg and a lot of the other vendors supply prepaid labels with their initial shipments, can't understand how this can be so hard for Amazon.
Laptop is nice and fast, SmartLogon manager is pretty cool (allows user to logon with face recognition), runs apps and games flawlessly. However a couple of issues:
1) Have a dead pixel, called ASUS for RMA will edit this review when issue is fixed to rate their customer service.
2) Amazon website clearly states complementary backpack and mouse, neither were received.  Emailed Amazon they said to contact ASUS, called ASUS they said to contact Amazon, clearly someone does not have their ducks in a row.  Have since replied to Amazon and asked them to resolve, again will edit this post when I get a reply.