ID: B0030T17I2-R1XX1XMXFS5LY0-A2A0FBLKJN4ZY5
Category: Laptops
Product: Alienware-M17x-2857DSB-17-Inch-Laptop-Black
ReviewerID: A2A0FBLKJN4ZY5
ReviewerName: W. freeman
Date: February 15, 2010
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: Worth every penny, if you have that many pennies
Content:
Well i was really leary about buying an alienware mostly because of the price and less expensive laptops you could get for a lesser price with the same or higher specs. Well here's the reason this is so worth it, and much better. First off all parts on the inside are intel genuine parts, Nvidia genuine parts and the whole laptop is build from the ground up with super top notch components. Lots of computers such as Acers, Gateway, HP, and even Sony use other companies to manufacture there motherboards graphic cards, screens etc etc. This thing is an absolute sherman tank, and just looks and feels down right indestructible. When i pulled it out of the box (which looked like is cost about 100$ itself i was like wow impressive). It was wrapped in a velvet black Alienware sleeve which was pretty unique, upon opening it i couldn't believe the weight(could be a con for some people), and then i realized this thing has METAL components, on the sides, bottom and the back of the screen. How often do you see that, never? So yes this thing is well worth the money. Now onto the specs. What it doesnt tell you(i'm writing about the Best Buy model) is that this unit is equipted with two yes two GPU's. One is the main Nvidia GTX 260, the other an Nvidia 9400, so basically the more powerful GPU feeds off the lesser one to give you extra graphical and gaming ability, and yes it shows, big time. The resolution may not be full 1080p(its 1440x900) but who really cares? Check on Xbox and Ps3 and you'll find there are very very few games that even run at full 1080p resolution, even upscaled the games look noting like on this thing. I've played Bioshock, Red Faction Guerilla, Resident Evil 5, and Crysis so far all without a hitch, even Crysis you can play at very high setting with a playable frame rate. The glossy screen really brings out the details and vibrant colors especially with antialiasing, even though its not the brightest in the world, its great. The slot loading DVD-RW is great, loads very quickly, and runs quietly. Don't be fooled by all the hype of the new I series intel chipsets, the i7 did not make that much of an impression on me, this thing has the Quad 2 Core running at 2.0 ghz, and the system rating for calculations per second are 6.9. The i7 in most of the other gaming machines is about 7.0 or 7.2, whoopi do, who really cares?? Also the overall look of this machine is just beautiful, the keys are atomatically set to blue, but you can change them to about any color you want using the Alienware Utility Console.
     The battery can get up to 3 hours if you turn down the screen and don't really game TO heavy, so thats definitely a plus. I got fed up with Asus because of allll kinds of wireless issues, blue screens of death, disc read errors, squashed unresponsive keys, and just some overall major screwups with the machines themselves. So yes i payed the extra money figuring this would be better and it way surpassed my expectations, being that it blows the more modern but fading Asus G60 and G72 series laptops out of the water. The speakers in the front also glow the same color as the keys or a different variety if you want, which is really something. On another note i opened the box with the power adapter and its a flat box type shaped, not the usual box Xbox 360 type adapter you usually get with gaming machines. I will add another 2 gigs(to get 6) just to add it, but heck it doesnt even need it, this thing is still a multitasking beast. I think anything over 6 gigs is really uneeded sine most games require no more than 3 gigs anyways, and that would be a shock. So as i've praised this is the first REAL gaming laptop i've ever owned, all the rest were ok but nothing compared to this thing. When they say its made for heavy duty gaming and multitasking they weren't kidding. This beast will surely stand the test of time, and is also upgradable for any GPU out there, but i don't think i'll ever need anything more. If you have the cash don't waste your time with Asus, Cyperpower, or even Toshiba Qosmio, even it the specs are better this thing is specifically designed for heavy use. The sound quality is the loudest i've ever heard, and also has a subwoofer. The only one thing that is a slight small issue is when your playing games the fan is realllly loud, but i really could care less considering i know it will never overheat, umm thats what the fans and cooling system are for. I've had other laptops where the fan didn't even run, not good. So enough going on and on, if you have the cash or credit just get it, its not just for gamers its for anyone that ones a really awesome looking and performing laptop to last for many years. One last funny thing is you get an Alienware black hat, and a manual bound in leather that looks like a bible, and also an Alienware alienhead sticker for, well wherever you wanna stick it. HA.
Only two things, no blu ray, which i could care less since i have it on my PS3, and i wish in these units they would put a 16x or 18x DVD burner, instead of just 8x.