ID: B0031ESWPC-R2ZSLX1FONQ8OX-A1S5XHBZIYOGRE
Category: Laptops
Product: TouchSmart-TM2-1070US-12-1-Inch-Riptide-Argento
ReviewerID: A1S5XHBZIYOGRE
ReviewerName: Rachel Romano
Date: March 30, 2010
Helpful: 9 of 11
Rating: 3.0
Title: A Four Star Tablet from a Two Star Company
Content:
I won't get into the technical specs because they have been very well covered to this point, but I do have a few things to add that will hopefully be helpful in some way. 
Firstly, I love this laptop.  In my opinion, it is the best looking in its class at the moment, has a wonderful (although very glossy and reflective) screen, and runs silently and quickly even with the standard processor as it's sold here.  I also like the placement of the fingerprint reader on the righthand side of the screen instead of sitting under my right hand while I am typing.  The touchpad is also extremely impressive with it's flat (buttons built in instead of standalone) and very large (comparable to my Macbook) design.  I love the keyboard too.  Very nice sized keys, just the right amount of resistance, easy to let my fingers fly on.  Having multitouch on the screen and on the touchpad is a whole new realm of computing comfort. 
Now, let me go on to say that I ordered this laptop only to receive a unit with a defective system board.  The first time I turned it on the unit crashed and gave me a blue screen 4 times before I could get through a complete Windows setup.  Since no one I talked to at HP knew what a blue screen was, they tried to blame Windows.  After reinstalling Windows and running a bunch of tests during 5 or 6 calls to HP, the unit continued to bluescreen during or soon after startup.  This is my second HP touchsmart PC (I also have the desktop, which had a defective dvd drive right out of the box) and I was disappointed in HP's inability to step up and replace this for me themselves.  (In all fairness, they did offer to attempt to repair it, but I would be out a laptop for 10 days and in the end have a refurbished unit for which I paid full price.  If a refurbished unit is ok with you, I'd save a few hundred bucks and just buy that upfront.  At least it's been tested that way.) 
So, I had to return the unit to Amazon, who gave me no hassle and offered me a full refund or replacement. Since I need a laptop now and can't wait to see the fabulous new options coming out summer 2010, I took Amazon's offer of a replacement and bought a 3 year warranty from Squaretrade.  I have hopefully seen the last of my problems with this model and still like it enough to look forward to a few years of good use.  Should that not turn out to be the case, I will update this review.  
Bottom line: If you buy this sharp little laptop, get a warranty.