ID: B00318CG8C-R93WUHD2RXUJ2-A13H558E3RGINB
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DM3-1130US-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Silver
ReviewerID: A13H558E3RGINB
ReviewerName: Nam Duong
Date: March 22, 2010
Helpful: 6 of 7
Rating: 3.0
Title: Pretty, but has flaws
Content:
Pro: Sturdy metal chassis and brushed metal cover! If you hold up the laptop with on hand on one side, you can feel how it's so freaking sturdy!
Crisp, clear screen with deep blacks and bright whites, good contrast.
4 gb of memory, 64-bit
Dual-Core!
Decent battery life (I get about 5-6 hours with 30% brightness, more if I turn the wireless card off)
Pretty gosh darn thin at .8-1.1 inches!
4 USB ports! HDMI out!
Draft N wireless so it's alot faster than many b/g only netbooks!
Integrated play, skip, pause, stop buttons that are so convenient when you are playing videos and music on WMP.
Windows 7 is GREAT!!!! Much better than XP and Vista.
Cons: Cheap bright plastic strip surrounding the edges of the bottom part of the laptop is easily chipped, and makes creaking noises when pressed, but only happens on one side. it's a minor build quality issue but it bugs me how they skimped on this. But at this price point, I guess it's understandable.
Gets pretty warm where you put your hands.
The mouse buttons are hard to press, and while this may seem like a very minor flaw, if you are surfing the web and pushing the buttons alot, your fingers may get swollen and sore like mine did.
Competitors, while a bit more expensive, have built-in overclocking to speed up your computer when you need power, and use less power when you're away from a power cord.
Battery takes a while to charge when it's depleted.
Integrated graphics and CULV processor means playing 1080p and 720p is not as smooth as you would have hoped.
I would have liked the fn button to be on the right of the keyboard, so you can use "page down" and "page up" commands with just your right hand when viewing pdf files or reading word documents.
I use this laptop for school, and get lots of compliments on the way it looks, and 13.3" is perfect. It's thin and pretty light, making it easy to carry in a backpack, and the metal chassis and the accelerometer that protects the HD means it's more protected from the inevitable bangs and scuffs. Multitouch was removed, I think, and I have no issues with the touchpad, it's not bad, you just need to get used to it. It's definitely fast enough for office, powerpoint, even basic photoshop! I had about 5-6 programs running at the same time, and it was only using around 2 gigs of RAM. The processor maxes out sometimes, but only when loading my browser and stuff. The keyboard is great, and it's has a nice balance between clackety and bounce. However, the mouse buttons, while they are two separate buttons (instead of an annoying single bar like on some netbooks) are hard to click and require stronger fingers. The best mouse buttons I've used were thinkpads by Lenovo, but those are really ugly compared to this beauty. I've had this for a few months, and I've had no problems. This is like a Macbook for 40% off!!! The only thing Macbook has that this doesn't is an optical drive but it's thicker.
I'm a bit disappointed I can't get 10 hours even on low brightness, but it's enough to get me through a full day of school, editing presentations, browsing the web and stuff. I see this as a good alternative to the netbook. I was about to get one but the screen is too small. The extra 3 inches diagonally in screen size means alot of more real estate.
If you have some extra money to throw away, and want a bit more battery life, but less metal, try the Asus UL30. It has adjustable clock speed, but it's more expensive and the processor isn't noticeably faster, though it's a SU7300 vs. this HP's SU4100. Save yourself some money if you want by going the HP route. Asus has better build quality, meaning the pieces are glued together better, but the HP feels more sturdy as a whole due to the metal chassis.
Oh, and the metal part surrounding the keyboard is actually many pieces very tightly put together. you can see the seams that blend in with the "brushed" lines, and the plastic tray where the keyboard on my unit wasn't 100% smooth with the metal surrounding it.
Anyways, this is such a great deal guys, despite some build quality issues. Check out the Asus 1201N. Less battery life, weaker processor, and only like 70 bucks cheaper? Please!!!! Hope this helps.