ID: B00365DXAK-R2WMTMT2K67KL2-A2FHM5FB0BXKGA
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VPC-Z116GX-13-1-Inch-Laptop-Silver
ReviewerID: A2FHM5FB0BXKGA
ReviewerName: Dr. Elaine O. Chaika "hotoldlady"
Date: April 27, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Super Machine
Content:
A 3 pound laptop is essential to me. I can't carry the big guys especially when I'm running around airports.  Since I've had amazing good luck with all my other Sony products, including  a 2005 laptop which my lawyer son is still using to show judges videos in court, and my Sony All-in-Ones, one bought in 2005 and given to the same son who is using it problem-free, and my current much bigger All-in-One, I naturally turned to Sony again, after first trying Macs and Dells.  This z-series is a dream. I'm using Windows 7 64 bit pro, which has the capability of XP imaging for 32 bit programs. I have 4 G of RAM, 500 SSD hard drive, 303 ghz speed, a long lasting battery on which I've worked 6-7 hours and still had capacity left on it, a very responsive keyboard, essential to a writer, the bluray R/W drive, and have had nothing but praise for it.  The person who downgraded this because it isn't a Linux machine is absurd.  It's a Windows machine. You want to run Linux and fiddle with your own BIOS, fine. This isn't for you.  But if you want a machine that is light, swift, responsive, and does what all the big guys do, this is your machine. Also, someone said it heated up as he worked on it.  I work on mine in bed for hours, and it doesn't get hot.  I did, you note, pay for extras, so I paid more than the base price, but it's worth it. 
One word about reliability.  In 2005, I bought a small Sony laptop and their first All-in-One desktop.  I outgrew them, although they never gave me a bit of trouble, and passed them on to my son, who is using them both in his law practice.  I also have a Sony All-in-One PCV-AHIL, which is superb, marvelous responsive keyboard, blazing fast and in 7 months have never had a thing go wrong with this either.  Ditto my Sony HDTV and bluray player.