ID: B003ES5GWW-RSDR9H792ZB32-A187JOV96Z1EGX
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Video-MP3-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A187JOV96Z1EGX
ReviewerName: Spacejockey
Date: December 29, 2009
Helpful: 5 of 11
Rating: 2.0
Title: I wish I waited until this product has matured with better interfaces
Content:
I have the Zune HD for a couple of months now and before I go into the Pros and Cons of the unit, I would just like to confess that my own personal experiences with mp3/mp5 players came from owning various versions of Creative mp3 players, from the bulky hard drive Nomad to the latter Zen and other no-name Korean and Chinese manufactured mp5 players with touch screens; and that my wife owns an Apple ipod that I have helped her with her hardware and operation issues, I would like to think that I do have some hands-on experience as comparison.
That said, I am really, really disappointed with this Zune HD at its current incarnation! I had such high hope for the unit, thinking that it is supposedly to be the new shining example of Microsoft's continued foray into the portable player market and that all the geek magazines all praised it as the next ipod contender!!! 
First off, the physical unit itself, it is probably the sturdiest unit I have encountered; the casing was cast metal and even though the unit is relatively slim and small, it was far hefty than many of the larger players out there with plastic casings!
As many other reviews have mentioned, the color screen is excellent for viewing videos and under most conditions, including cloudy overcast days outdoor, the screen appeared to shine; but even under partial shade in somewhat bright outdoor environments, the screen became muted and hard to see; that is to be expected.
I live in an area where there are few radio stations (that I care to listen to) and thus, I can't really put the HD radio functions into a true test, other than that the Zune HD does pick up very sharp and clear signals.
I wish I have more positive notes I could say of my two hundred plus dollar unit but for now, I would be hard pressed to come up with another.
Now, I would get into the shortcomings of this otherwise potential player...
First on the list I would belly-ache over is the darn user interface!!! This is Microsoft's baby after all, why reinvent the darn wheel when millions of us are already familiar with the usual interfaces in the various versions of Windows!!!?
There are NO drag-an-drop functions whatsoever!!! With my recently retired Creative Zen unit, I plugged the Zen player into my laptop and immediately, I see it as another external drive. I could simply drag and drop my favorite tunes from my collection onto it or I could remove the ones from the player that I have gotten tired of listening. In that manner, a smaller capacity was not an issue. If I wanted to arrange the collection into various categories or simply let the player choice randomly for hours on end, it was just as easy. Not with the Zune HD! I couldn't even tell what songs are currently `synced' in my player unless I scroll up and down its screen; there is no SIMPLE file management type windows that I could see from my computer, as I could with most of my other players!
Oh yes, I could see my music if I was to click the various headings like ARTISTS, CENRES, SONGS, etc. but what do those windows tell me? It surely is not the property windows that pop up when I right click on my music files in my Vista. So why create this very un-user friendly interface!!!? I see tiny icons of, what, a tiny Zune under the sync status and that is suppose to tell me which piece of music is already in my Zune and the ones without are still un-synced!? Well, I have some songs on my laptop that have been there for ages and yet, every day I plugged my Zune HD into my computer and it displayed it tiny atomic-like sync icon in the beginning, telling me it's... well, syncing, those songs are still not in my Zune HD player.
What gives?
To continue with the negative comments on this interface, I have yet to be able to sync many of my videos onto the unit! I have cheaper (much cheaper) Asian throw-aways that could readily play most of my WMV and many other formats of videos while on my Zune HD, I downloaded the various episodes of the "The Guild" (for free) from the Microsoft's video site and yet, I could only see (a BIG) one episode out of the more than a dozen I downloaded onto my computer via the Zune's syncing interface.
I also made various attempts at converting some YouTube FLV into WMV and Mpeg formats and none of them could be loaded onto my Zune HD! Though I have followed the very confusing instructions as to sync my folders with the various videos, manually or automatically, in hope of getting them transferred, I have yet to achieve success with anything more than that ONE episode! While all the episodes would be listed under my video collection in the Zune HD utility on my computer, they remained there as to mock me of my continued failure! 
Why a completely different way to arrange or manipulate different audio and video files with different interfaces? And what about that Zune HD looking icon on the bottom left of all the screens? If I hover above it, it would tell me to "Drag item to sync with _"... so, is that to sync with my Zune HD player or to sync with... what? And drag what? Supposedly, what I am seeing on those screens are what are supposedly to be on my Zune HD... or am I wrong?
As to the wi-fi connection onto the web, well I love it and I hate it! I loved it because, there it is, my shiny new toy could access the web and I could... well, do what? Many of the web sites I accessed were hard to navigate, with the minimal control provided by the Zune HD! I would scroll down the screen to the bottom and then... what? How do I get to the rest of the page? And many of the links and hotspots on the sites are simply inaccessible or not responsive. Some links, am I suppose to tab it on screen with my finger or am I suppose to hold down on the link/hot spot? And Gawd forbid when I have to input a user name and password on some sites- frustration is a simple way of describing the experience! 
I figured at least I could go online and check my Yahoo or GMail mails. Wrong. I have yet to be able to do such simple tasks when others are doing so with their cel phones- and those weren't even made by the Great Microsoft! 
Oh, maybe I could watch some YouTube videos to calm my growing frustration!? Wrong. There are currently no flash player or ANY third party players for the Zune to view any such videos! So much for watching some FLV formatted videos, without conversions. And good luck with that, seriously! You will have to go onto many of the very friendly user forums to get help in even attempting to covert such files, with lots of limitations- which Microsoft would never mention in their ads, of cos.
I am not the brightest person in the world, nor am I the slowest; I would be the first to say I am just another average user of such geeky toys but come on, isn't this Zune HD designed just for someone like me!!!? My wife complained about the convoluted way Apple handles its itunes and how she has trouble getting itunes and mp3 songs on or off and to and from her computer and the player; she said she would not buy another ipod products because of it. 
The quality of the sound is, well, not what I expected of such a multiple-bucks unit! I would describe the sound of the mp3 music as just pedestrian- nothing special. Heck, in fact, the pair of ear buds that came with this expensive player would have been in par with something available in some 99c stores! I went out and purchased a much better pair for less than ten bucks from Targets and the quality improved... still not spectacular but far better than the `came with' set of ear buds. What a way to cut corner there, use the budget allocated for the very handsome and sturdy box the unit came in and spend it on improving the quality of the included ear pieces for future potential users please.
OK, I am finally onto the physical interfaces for the Zune HD unit itself...
THREE buttons! It's a multiple tabs affair just to adjust level or choice the next song to listen to. How about just ONE tiny rocker switch on the side? I would be very happy if I could just reach into my pocket, feel up the rocker switch and push the top to raise the volume or the lower halve to be quieter; as it is now, I have to pull the player out of wherever I had it nice and cozy and push on the button on the left hand side of the unit just to access the music control screen. And hoping against hope that I would not accidentally brush up against the screen with my clumsy fingers when putting it back into my pocket/bag/whatever and changing the settings again.
And what's with this retarded way of shutting the darn unit down!!!? Why would I want to turn the screen on, hold down the top button and then, be told to drag my finger downward on the screen to turn the unit off!!! And if I was to not drag my finger down completely to the bottom of the screen over the colourful swirling graphic screen, I would have to do the whole thing over. 
On my Creative Zen, I have a power button that I would simply hold down and the unit would turn off. Simple! On yet another no-name Asian player, I have a slider switch and I simply slide it and the unit is off. So, what's with this Microsoft's fancy two-steps with my fingers just to do something simple? And that is if I am not wearing gloves! Oh I feel sorry for you folks living through the cold winter right now, you wouldn't be able to shut a Zune HD off with gloved hands.
There are currently only a handful of APPS, available for free download from Microsoft's marketplace... and they are not that good! What can't Microsoft make the Zune HD accessible to all those cel phone apps out there? If nothing else, do encourage third-party developers to create apps for us Zune HD owners please?
Here I am, the supposedly proud owner of this Microsoft Zune HD and I am having problems showing it off against an ipod!? Whatever happened to Microsoft's quality control? How about testing such units with `average' everyday, non-technical users and note their feedbacks!!!? If it weren't for the cost of over two hundred bucks, I would have thrown the darn thing away or pass it on to my seven year-old to use and trash.
I could only wish Microsoft would get its act together, issue some new, user-friend interfaces, at least to address the syncing issues since they could not do much about the actual hardware clunkiness of the unit without designing yet another newer one that would cost more. And for crying out loud, give us something we could be proud to own instead of making us feel like we were being rip off and wished we purchased something else from another manufacturer. 
It is a sad fact that I am learning more about this unit from user forums than from Microsoft's own skimpy instructions. It makes me feel like I purchased this product and now, I am on my own to find out and learn more about it, from other helpful owners?
I hope my review would help with some of you in deciding whether to invest in this new Zune HD or check out the (less expensive) Latte series of players, the new Creative Lab's touch screen player or wait for some other newer wi-fi large touch screen contenders coming out in 2010.
I am sure there are those out there that would disagree with my review, please realize that this is just my own opinion and completely subjected to my own ignorant and lack of geekiness. Please, just let me say my peace and submit your own comments instead of flaming me because you disagree. Thank you.