ID: B003GSLU3E-R3PZ9ZAI5EX1YZ-A2EHE46BB6TU8Z
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MC374LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2EHE46BB6TU8Z
ReviewerName: Stephen R. Smith "steve62702"
Date: April 16, 2010
Helpful: 7 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: my first Mac, very nice!!
Content:
I use a laptop for email, internet, movies, backing up iPhone and I need MS Office.  I was tired of constant updates and the threat of viruses from my PC.  I'm glad I went with the Pro version.  The metal case feels solid.  The backlit keys are handy when watching TV and browsing online.  The screen and backlit keys are light sensitive.  The screen dims in dark and the keys light up.  It taking some getting used to using the HUGE thumb pad.  
PROS:  I love the long battery life.  Close the case and the Mac goes into hibernation mode.  I tested it yesterday, it had no negative effect on the battery after a couple hours.  that means you can close the lid and walk away.  Come back later and open it and touch the pad and you are back up immediately!!  Sweet!  I'm delightfully surprised how cool this thing stays.  My old HP would get HOT and the fan never seemed to cool enough or shut off.  This thing never gets hot.  Heck it never seems to even warm up.  The DVD/CD slot is just that, a slot.  No drawer to slide out.  Pretty slick.  I was pretty nervous the first time I used it.  The disc has to be all but 1/2" in for it to grab it.  I love the lightness of this thing.  Easy to grab and go.  I love the brightness of the screen.  I went from a 15.4" so I was concerned about this being too small.  but it is the perfect size.  I'm a happy consumer!!  I haven't had a chance to try all the Mac programs.  The wife had me print some pictures for her last night.  I was really impressed how easy iPhoto was to edit.  It really did a nice job with it's "enhance" button that adjust the colors.  I am happy to finally have a SD slot.  I love the fact that I can send Excel and Word documents to my PC. Microsoft Office 2008 for Mac Home & Student Edition  
CONS:  When installing the MS Office the DVD player seemed really loud.  When copying CD's this noise didn't happen.  CD read rate is slow.  When ripping a CD to iTunes the player only got up to 7-8x.  I'm not real excited about the power jack.  It is held in magnetically.  So it easily falls out when the Mac is in my lap.  But with the long battery life I realized the I don't need to constantly charge it like the old PC.  So kinda a mute point.  
Packaging:  Amazon has got it figured out.  The box was well packaged and arrived in perfect shape.  I went to UPS a day early and had them hold it so I could pick it up first thing in the morning instead of waiting impatiently for the truck.