ID: B00352LQYO-R1R0Y5ISMQBRCJ-A2PBY2BUUCCDEK
Category: Laptops
Product: N61JV-X2-16-Inch-Versatile-Entertainment-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2PBY2BUUCCDEK
ReviewerName: Turbohawk "If you're not living on the edge, ...
Date: March 24, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 3
Rating: 3.0
Title: Bad luck perhaps? Never got response from Asus support...
Content:
First, I have to give credit to the awesome Amazon customer service rep on how the return for this defective item was handled. I've always dreaded buying computers from online retailers but I don't fear anything with Amazon in this regard anymore.
I really LOVED the performance and IDEA of this machine. With the Optimus dual video card setup, the balance of battery life/performance from a higher end dedicated video seems to be achievable. Unfortunately my unit had issues, first with the system not recognizing the Nvidia card, then with the wireless network refusing to power up, that were never acknowledged by Asus tech support even after several email complaints (via their online reporting system) and attempting calling their phone number (nothing has been heard even to the date of this writing). 
I believe that Asus builds quality components, at least in my experience, but their support with other items I've owned (motherboards) leaves a LOT to be desired. I once returned a defective motherboard that was returned to me without any explanation or physical clue that anything was done. It did seem to work, so I guess I shouldn't complain?  Would have been nice to know what went wrong, that's all.
For some reason the Asus notebooks UNDER the $1400 pricepoint (as of this review) only carry a 1 year warranty. Granted, they also include an accidental damage coverage (one time use) which is nice. 
I probably just got a defective unit but there weren't any available to exchange. 
This model does not have bluetooth, BluRay, and the DVD burning was woefully slow (8X max). It's lightweight (a feather compared to my old HP) but doesn't feel like very tough either.  Unfortunately I didn't have this unit running long enough to fully explore it's capabilities. Your mileage may vary. I will consider another Asus (especially after learning that Sony uses their motherboards in many, if not all, of their laptops) but I'll do a lot more research before I pull the trigger on the next one.