ID: B00310PG32-R3JNRSKMZ197F8-A2BD24Y3SWA688
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV8T-18-4-Inch-Laptop-Espresso
ReviewerID: A2BD24Y3SWA688
ReviewerName: G. Rutter
Date: February 20, 2010
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 2.0
Title: HP DV8T Buyer Beware
Content:
I purchased 3 HP Pavilion DV8T Laptops for use in our small business.  It was hard to ignore this machine with it's impressive specs.  We do graphics design, so we ordered these with 8GB RAM, 320G Hard drive, Windows 7 Professional, Bluetooth, and Blue Ray.  Upon initial setup you'll likely want to remove or disable the bloatware that HP bundles with these machines. The antivirus warnings were extremely annoying, which continued to appear even after installing our own Antivirus software. We next connected our bluetooth mouse and discovered that the built in bluetooth adapter on 1 of the 3 machines was unstable, resulting in extremely erratic and un-responsive mouse behavior.  We fortunately had an external USB Bluetooth adapter, so we turned off the built-in bluetooth, and were able to restore normal mouse behavior with our external USB Bluetooth adapter.  It defeated the purpose of purchasing the built-in bluetooth.  Next we discovered that the Bass & Treble controls would randomly appear on-screen with erratic behavior.  The level indicator in the Bass or Treble control would rapidly and erratically change settings.  We discoverd the volume control, if selected, would exhibit the same behavior.  We went to the HP Support Forums only to find that we were not alone with this problem.  It was an intermittent problem, so we continued with our machine configuration, assuming that if others were experiencing the problem, HP would soon post a fix.  We next found that the monitor would occasionally go blank, then recover, with a message that would appear stating that the video driver stopped responding and recovered.  Again back to the support forums only to once again discover that we were not alone with this problem.   We also noticed that when doing graphic editing, artifacts or random pieces of pictures we were moving on the screen would be left behind.. like the screen was not being refreshed correctly.  We downloaded the latest BIOS, as others had done, which did not fix either problem.  We looked for updated video drivers, but there is no official fix from HP for the DV8T.  Several forum users suggested loading drivers from the DV6T or downloading drivers directly from NVidia's website.  We didn't want to randomly start installing unsupported solutions so did not do either.  We did call HP Tech support, however, expecting to speak with knowledgable people that perhaps could lead us to a solution.  First we had to overcome communication issues where we had to constantly ask the technician to repeat himself.  It was the first time I wished for a selection that said "For English, press 1".  HP's support was poor.  Maybe useless would be more accurate.  This is NOT the HP I was used to dealing with.  I understand these machines are new and may have some startup issues..  but the support techs were clearly clueless, were not aware of any issues with these machines until I directed them to read the HP support forum.  They then told me that engineering is not working on any fixes for these machines because they have not documented any issues.  The only suggestion they could give was to do a full system recovery (from reading the support forums it is apparently what they tell everyone, and it has not fixed the problems).   At this time I am waiting for a phonecall from HP with Return Authorization for these machines.  These "should be" nice laptops.  They are not inexpensive machines.  But they do have problems.  If you need a machine that 'just works', then this is NOT your computer.  I strongly suggest you do some research and read the support forums before you purchase this laptop.  HP needs to address the hardware and driver problems that users are experiencing before this machine should be considered for purchase.