ID: B0034GXNYM-RSGWAZ4TWPE4C-A3K55SHF4MN6RR
Category: Laptops
Product: N61JQ-A1-16-Inch-Versatile-Entertainment-Laptop
ReviewerID: A3K55SHF4MN6RR
ReviewerName: Wayne
Date: April 8, 2010
Helpful: 0 of 5
Rating: 1.0
Title: second fail... save your money and your time
Content:
This unit was a replacement for a N81VP which had issues from the get go.  I sent it in because of the severe keyboard clank and flex.  Web search for it and it's a known issue.  I was aware of the issue and was prepared to RMA the thing just because the specs were impressive.  I received the item back scratched up, hard drive cover not snapped in place properly and some extra added noise coming from the cpu area.  You would think that they would pay extra care to fix your laptop properly given the fact they clearly let down the customers expectations on quality control right?  To get a machine back in worse condition?  That's just not acceptable given what these things cost.
So the N61JQ-X1 is a nice looking machine as everyone has stated.  I was trilled when I saw the beauty of the thing when I received it and it made up (not really) for my troubles.  The screen takes some getting used to but it's actually very nice.  The Elan Touchpad (not Synaptics) is much nice than the crap they threw on the N81VP (also known issue on the web).  There's a minor bit of keboard flex on the left side.  At this point I can live with it.
Here's where it all breaks down again.  I loaded this thing with Windows 7 Ultimate N 64 and then reached for the included Driver's Disk.  The envelope did look a bit like someone handled before.  Loading it up I discovered the disk was completely empty.  4.7 GB free.  Nice going ASUS.  I went to the website to load the drivers.  All were confusingly there except the NEC USB 3.0 drivers.  foobar2.  A few days later I started hearing a loud and seriously annoying whine coming from the bottom edge of the laptop.  At times the high pitch sounds as though it resonates through the right hand side of the keyboard.  Swap  the hard drive out with another and still a sound.  I can barely stand using the laptop for 30 minutes as the whine is just so piercing as if you're ears are ringing.  And your ears continue to sound as if it's ringing long after you've turned off the machine.  
Asus, also take note.  The power plug on the left.  That's going to be an issue in the future.  I'm not sure anyone uses these plugs anymore.  Why is the pin side of the plug on the laptop side?  It should be on the power supply side in case they get bent and require replacing.  The pin is actually 5 shards coming to a point with each shard suspect to bending if not careful.  It's like stuff that belongs in 1990s electronics.
I won't be buying another ASUS anytime in the future.  I bought into the SquareTrade hype about the most reliable computers being Asus.  It's clearly not the case.  I should of relied on my intuition.  It's just not possible for a new comer to the scene to establish that level of quality.  Frankly, hate to say it but you can't beat Dell after service for repairs.  My friend also bought an Asus desktop (i7-920) for his work and they've had nothing but issues.  2 years and 1 year accidental sounds nice.  It's not so nice when they don't fix your machine right.  It's not nice that they don't supply shipping materials for the RMA.  It's not nice when they make you pay for Advance Replacement shipping for your parts.  The VP of quality control needs his mai-tai rations taken away.