ID: B0032Z8KN4-R1WF0562DSBVW6-AA0Q5IBL0HM5X
Category: Laptops
Product: Gateway-NV5383u-15-6-Inch-Laptop-Red
ReviewerID: AA0Q5IBL0HM5X
ReviewerName: Matthew Bucar "Matt"
Date: March 7, 2010
Helpful: 9 of 10
Rating: 5.0
Title: Gateway, Yep, still in business
Content:
Gateway is still in business.  Although now built by ACER the Gateway NV53 is quite a nice product.  In the past I have owned 3 Gateway's which have all lasted a modest amount of time.  After the ACER aquisition  I never really thought to even look at a Gateway as I sure was unhappy with two ACER's I had ordered and sent back.  While flipping through the TV channels the other day I came upon a "Today's Special" on HSN.  It was this Gateway.  I watched and watched and watched and boy did I listen to the host (who lied the entire time) and a Gateway rep. (also a liar).  They just went on and on about the Blu-Ray player and the Hard Drive Space 320GB and 4Meg of Ram.  They spoke of how no other Gateway was available with a Blu-Ray as HSN has bought them all out for this sale and how at $699 a special 800 number to India and $380 bucks worth of useless software this deal could not be made anywhere else.  Just couldn't be.  Afterall they had a the Blu-Ray drives and 3 interest free payments.
Not being one to trust a no nothing Host on HSN I began to scour the net to see what I could come up with.  Not only did I find the Red Gateway that I wanted, it also had a 500GB Hard Drive and it had a superior processor to the one on HSN.  It had the same Web Cam and the same everything except that wonderful software bundle.  (cough, choke, hack, hack).  And low and behold it was available on my AMAZON card for 12 months and no interest.  How could this be?  An Employee from Gateway and an HSN host both told the same  story which was an out and out lie.  I'm typing right this minute on my new Gateway that I bought from Amazon and received in 2 days, not 10.  The computer is great.  Full sized keyboard and a numeric key pad.  A full motion touch pad, blu-ray, 500GB Hard Disk and 4mg of Ram all here and working beautifully.  Acer aside, this machine still has a nice feel to it and is put together very well.  From the Gateway Emblem to the Vision M500 Processor and HDMI port, this machine has just about everything you would want.  I suggest you look at all the Gateway's available on AMAZON and at [...] as they are still building a solid, great looking product.  Only draw back is that 800 number to India but I'm hoping to never use it.   Most problems are created by the user and if you keep backups you can do all the repairs yourself.   My vote, BUY A GATEWAY and buy it here at Amazon not at HSN.