ID: B00352LQZS-R381ORXI1Z7YRM-A13WF5JLZ9S22U
Category: Laptops
Product: N61JQ-X1-16-Inch-Versatile-Entertainment-Laptop
ReviewerID: A13WF5JLZ9S22U
ReviewerName: Marc "whyeie"
Date: April 5, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 2
Rating: 2.0
Title: Broken Computer + Horrible ASUS Customer Service = Maybe I Got a Lemon
Content:
There are many positive reviews on this and the specs for the price are great.  So here's my story...
I received the N61jq-x1 and immediately there was a problem with the touchpad.  The cursor on the screen would jump all over when I touched the pad.  It made the computer almost completely unusable.  (I'm not a little kid and I've used countless laptops so all the ASUS fan boys don't have to leave comments saying I'm too stupid to use a touchpad)  Also, in the couple hours I used it before I sent it back it crashed/blue screened 5 times.  On the last time before I put it in the box to send it back I had to restart it manually 3 times before it would turn on.  
So ASUS took it back for repair.  They said it would take 3 days once they received it, it took 2 weeks.  They said they would notify me if it took more than 3 days, they never did.  They said I would be able to check its status online with the number they gave me, I was never able to.  So after 5 days of not hearing anything I called and the lady I spoke to said it would ship back to me in 3 days and the website was down, thats why I couldn't check it's status online.  Again I waited 5 days before I called and this lady just said the status was "in repair" and that the website was not down.  She didn't know why I couldn't check the status but she didn't offer to help.  Both people I talked to were not at all helpful, had no information at all for me, and hardly spoke English anyways.    
Eventually it did ship back and I received an email saying they had reinstalled drivers and the OS.  I had told them over the phone and in a letter I put in the box that I had done both of those and the problem with the touchpad was still there.  I didn't have much faith it would work when I got it back.   
 
Of course the second I turn it on it goes to the Windows setup screen and I try to select my language and the cursor on the screen was jumping all over just like before.  I called Amazon immediately to return it.  
Don't recommend any ASUS computers to anyone.  As I said, the price and specs were great and if I had received a working one it would have been awesome.  My main concern is that I now have absolutely no faith in ASUS so the warranty is completely useless.  If it breaks out of the 30 days that Amazon will take it back you are screwed.  Their service over the phone was non-existent and the fact that they just reinstalled software to fix a hardware problem made it even worse.  I bought a Sony VAIO and love it!