ID: B0031ESTD2-R2B22RR8VBPIR2-A22Z4AEOH7EYCO
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-T115D-S1120-TruBrite-11-6-Inch
ReviewerID: A22Z4AEOH7EYCO
ReviewerName: Michael Tutaan
Date: February 11, 2010
Helpful: 28 of 28
Rating: 5.0
Title: I love this thing.
Content:
I have a 16 inch Toshiba dual core/4gb ram I purchased a year ago and loved it, but I wanted something mobile with a longer battery life. I love Toshiba quality and decided they can have my business again. I was looking around for a netbook but then this came out. I went with the dual core just in case I needed to photoshop and watch movies on it later. I've looked at 10.1 inch screens, and they were just so tiny and have to scroll a lot when when reading online.  11.6 inch screen is perfect, I don't notice the screen size being a problem. Screen is beautiful, watching HD shows and movies look fine and play fine.  
I have had this for about week and have done mostly web browsing and haven't ran it through the ringer with memory hog programs life photoshop yet but it feels just as fast as my 16 inch dual core with 4 gb of ram.  I usually get over 4.5 hours battery life on bright settings but I put it on eco mode which dims the backlight and I get 5+ hours.
I watch youtube videos with ease but speakers are not the best which doesn't matter since I use headphones on it. Hulu, Facebook, you name it all work just as fast as my laptop. Itunes works great. 
One thing was common in reading netbook reviews was that you can't expect it to replace your regular laptop or desktop. I honestly think this product can, especially if your an average user who watches youtube, listen to music, web browse. I didn't see the need to upgrade Ram yet and probably won't so I don't sacrifice more battery life.
One complaint is that is does get warm when I'm using it constantly but not like it is burning my leg warm.  I'm used to the track pad but prefer using a wireless mouse. I picked up another logitech wireless mouse which works perfectly.  If your thinking of getting a netbook, or just a laptop that has a long battery life but don't want to sacrifice power, this is it.