ID: B00313JXM4-R11MM11A077CL-AMSQ9BY4O8TQY
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-A505-S6020-TruBrite-16-0-Inch
ReviewerID: AMSQ9BY4O8TQY
ReviewerName: H. Yates "Hay"
Date: May 1, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Awesome Laptop
Content:
2yr young Vista HP Pavilion laptop vs Toshiba
>The full key pad! The keys are slick, and firm vs HP 'floated' and rattled (and if you did not hit directly in the center the key would stick or not respond). Love the number pad!! The location of the side keys(shift, ctrl...) are located within easy reach, HP located them lower so moving from a desktop key board I would miss the side keys. Toshiba I can move between no problems.
>A working touch pad! Does not interfere when I type (and I type a lot), does not 'jump'. Very easy to 'thumb' operate while typing. I haven't enjoyed a touch pad since my Dell. HP's was so sensitive I always carried a mouse so I could turn it off!
>No damn remote control! HP had no option to turn the remote OFF and was so sensitive the neighbor's remotes would activate the horrid Vista Media center. Our TV remote would turn the laptop on or change programs. I finally covered the 'eye' with duct tape!
>Pre-installed programs. There is no way to buy a computer without the junk, but HP drowns you in junk! It took me 2 weeks to clean the Pavilion and have a usable laptop. Toshiba, maybe an hour.
>Speakers, tops ===for a laptop === (HP's were OK)
>Vista vs Win 7   Vista is so bad I am upgrading the HP for my son. Win 7 loads and shuts off under 15 secs! Sleep & hibernate WORK! on a laptop. So far everything works. 
>>>buyer beware! Please get the word out that Win 7 does take special processors (not all Intel processors work! [...])The main focus is if you plan to upgrade for the XP mode, but I have friends having problems with cheaper processors for games and applications. If you want to use Win 7 you will need to buy ram, a good video card, and a high end processor (AND watch the sales! I found that Office Depot would remove ram or downgrade the video card then offer the "amazing $100 off" sale price. Always read the specs before you buy)
>Power cord... wow, big! But this is a 16" Luckily I did plan to get a cord for home and a spare to leave at work. It is twice as large as the HP's but the Toshiba is quiet. The HP sounded like it was on the edge of overheating and exploding.  
So far no Cons with the Toshiba, HP/Vista had me constantly Googling for solutions right out of the box. If it was not a Vista problem it was a HP problem.