ID: B00322PYVS-RRYONJR7A9ZYF-AONCRTFII6F17
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VAIO-VPC-F111FX-16-41-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: AONCRTFII6F17
ReviewerName: R. B. Stitt
Date: April 17, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 5.0
Title: Sweet, Really Sweet
Content:
I purchased my Sony Vaio VPCF111FX about 2 weeks ago from J&R Music World Computer World thru Amazon.  Like many others I keep coming back to Amazon for their great service, amazing prices and customer reviews.  I was a little bit hesitant about not purchasing directly from Amazon but thru one of their vendors.  I shouldn't have worried, J&R came through great.  Shipping was a whopping $4 for standard.  I order it on a Monday and it arrived UPS on that Friday.  Pretty neat for standard shipping.  The package arrived with some heavy duty gray plastic wrapping which was secured via security tape.  This tape stated, "don't accept if tampered".  No problems, no tampering.  Once I removed the packaging it was standard oem Sony Vaio box.  Computer, power brick, cables and some documentation.  No discs...Win 7 or restore.
Some background on why I went with the Sony.  I'm a Mac guy, or at least I have been for the past 8 yrs or so.  I bought a G5 (1.6mhz) when they first came out.  I love the OS on Macs.  Very easy to navigate about and talk about "eye candy".  The G5 when you open it up is just quality.  Oh yeah, pretty good performer too.  Talk about a Mac family, my wife had an iBook (more on that later), daughter #1 (graphic artist in publishing) 17" MacBook Pro, daughter #2 iBook (2of them).  My son though is a PC guy, currently has a Lenovo Ybook running Win 7.  Son # 2 (13 yr old) has been vying for time on my G5 for a while now and it has been a battle getting my time.  I've never had a laptop but thought it was about time.  The search began.  I have been keeping up with Win 7 and my son has been pushing it as being stable and pretty cool.  I wanted a laptop that had BluRay capabilities and that eliminated Mac's.  Price eliminated Macs too.  So, I decided to go back to the "Dark Side".  Ok, my requirements: 
1.i5 or i7 chip
2.300 to 500gb HD
3.separate graphics card
4."N" capabilities
5.BluRay
6.15"-16" screen
7.4gb ram min
8.hi resolution screen
I started looking at some Asus laptops.  According to their website you could configure them with an i5/i7 with bluray but searching Amazon and others none were configured that way.  I really liked what Asus is coming out with.  Their Optimus technology...Nvidia automatic graphics switching to optimize battery life is neat.  Additionally their warranty can't be beat...2yrs.  I liked them so much I actually bought one for my wife!  Yes, her iBook died.  I was debating getting her another new iBook for about $850 but then found this Asus (ASUS UL50Vt-A1 Thin and Light 15.6-Inch Black Laptop - 11.5 Hours of Battery Life (Windows 7 Home Premium)).  Same price as the iBook but larger screen, thin and light and the battery life was incredible.  She loves it, other than the sensitivity of the mouse pad.  Well, I kept looking.  I searched the Sony site and configured a F model to my liking (bluray, 1920x1080 screen, 300gb 7200rpm hd) and it came out to be $1350 or so, and then add another $70 for tax.  Arrrrgh, getting a bit expensive, more than I wanted to spend.  Back to the drawing board.  My son was offering suggestions and found a Sony (Sony VAIO VPC-EB17FX/B 15.5-Inch Laptop (Black)) that had the hi def screen but was running an i3.  I was a bit wary of getting the i3 as I had wished I got the 1.8mhz G5 instead of the lower 1.6mhz.  Plus the i3 was not a quad core.  I finally found this one.  It had about everything I wanted with the exception of the 1920x1080 screen. Reviews were very positive and the price was right too.  I'm flexible, so I went for it.  
First impressions, this Sony is built!  Nice, very nice.  It's a quality piece.  Set up with my home network was a piece of cake.  I used IE8 once to download Firefox and Thunderbird.  IE8 has now been retired, not deleted as I've heard that may cause some major problems.  Although not as intuitive as Mac OS, Win 7 isn't bad.  Maybe it's just that I'm not familiar with Win 7.  I'm learning.  I have a Brother HL-3070CW Compact Digital Color Printer with Wireless Networking(Brother HL-3070CW Compact Digital Color Printer with Wireless Networking) and getting that setup was interesting.  I thought that I could slip in the Brother disc and that would get everything going but ran into some problems.  I finally went into the Control Center and add devices and Win 7 got things rolling...then it asked for the disc and voila!  Everything worked.  Win 7 actually found an updated driver for the printer a few days later...automatically.  NEAT.  I love being able to hit the print button from wherever I am and hear that printer wake up and print.  If I could only get my Canon LID scanner to do the same.  Had a spot of trouble with configuring Thunderbird but after I manually changed a setting everything worked fine.  
Ok, operation.  Heat isn't really a problem.  When I run a bluray movie I do get some heat on the side where the vent is.  Palm rest is cool.  Fan noise is not really noticeable.  I believe that I have heard some mention of a click/morse code sound from the F models but haven't run into that.  The keyboard is quite sturdy, no flexing that I can determine.  Chicklet keys are a-ok with me.  Back light keyboard is really nice when you need it.  Some have complained that the screen is muddy or not bright.  On automatic it's acceptable and very clear to me.  If I want it brighter I can manually adjust screen brightness using the "FN + F3/F4" keys or go into settings and make the change permanent.  Course the brighter screen draws more power, so you make a trade.  Speaking of power the i7 has lots of oomph.  The video is also pretty nice.  YouTube videos are a no wait and no stutter.  The same with videos on CNET.  I'm a happy camper.  One interesting feature is the palm rest.  Unlike my wife's shiny glossy black plastic ASUS this Sony has a textured palm rest.  No finger prints.  The materials used for this laptop are top notch.  A plus is that it is not a finger print magnet.  Easy to wipe off if you do get a smudge.  Also, unlike her Asus the mouse pad has two proper buttons (hers has a single rocker button).  Overall this Sony is quiet, sturdy, well built, good looking, stylish, and lots of features.   IMHO, this laptop could/is a desktop replacement at least it is for me:)
Cons are a couple.  The i7 chip is a bit of a power hog.  Battery life is 2-3 hrs.  I'm ok with that as I use the Vaio around the house so an outlet is near at hand.  If I were traveling I might look at power consumption a bit closer.  Some have noted that it has only 2 usb ports....ok 3 if you count the SATA.  Not a big thing for me as I'm not using a mouse.  I have plugged in a usb drive once or twice, no problems.  I wish that the headphone plug (lower right corner) was upper right corner and out of the way.  (BTW, looking for a new set of headphones.  If anyone has a recommendation please post).  I'm still coming to grips with the mouse pad being center left.  Guess I'll just learn to live with it.  The screen is really sharp but I wish there was a mat option.  Again, not a deal breaker.  A bit on the heavy side and not nearly as svelte as my wife's Asus.  If I were a college student and lugging this around all day I might consider something a bit lighter and thinner.  I wanted bluray and I got it.  I believe that the software is Corel.  Well, the software plays blurays but I was kind of hoping that since this is a Sony it would have similar graphic interface of the PS3 which is just plain cool.  Well, it plays blurays and that's what I wanted.  A gripe, why does every manufacture have to plaster on a bazillion stickers!  Time to get out the goo begone.  Also, a fair amount of bloatware.  Too many trial offers.  I'll wait till Office 2010 comes out.  Norton 360 trial....I'm a Comcast customer and can download it for free.  Right now I'm using AVG and considering the Norton.  I remember years ago using Norton and my system slowing to a crawl.  I've heard some good things about 360 though and am considering it.  I know that Sony media gallery does photos and video and music but so far haven't investigated it.  Just hope it's as good as iTunes and iPhoto.  Maybe I'll be pleasantly surprised and it will be better!
I'm very pleased with this purchase. This Sony does everything I want and probably more once  I get up to speed with Win 7.  If you are on the fence about purchasing this Vaio, just do it.  No regrets.
Finally, Amazon is just flat out GREAT to deal with.
Oh, a request.  I'm looking for a PC forum similar to the MacForums I regularly visit.  If anyone has a suggestion, please post.  Cheers.