ID: B0031RG0SU-R2JY0A6ITKW93E-A1I4J68KRAS7P7
Category: Laptops
Product: Gateway-NV5915u-15-6-Inch-Laptop-NightSky
ReviewerID: A1I4J68KRAS7P7
ReviewerName: Jen "EmtJenC"
Date: February 28, 2010
Helpful: 0 of 8
Rating: 1.0
Title: Beware Gateway
Content:
Awful customer service! I purchased a smilar model (They no longer make the model I have) Gateway laptop last August for school. I was wooed by the nifty backlit keyboard and the wide screen. I was happy with it for a few minutes, then I looked at the bottom of the laptop and realized it had a build date of January 2009, my computer was already 7 months old. After a few weeks of back and forth to class, the case started to loosen around the screen. After about two months, the keyboard started to warp and the keys began to crack. After threee months, it crashed for the first time. the customer service was horrible and the first thing they wanted me to do was purchase a restore CD. After talking to a few more techs, one revealed that I didn't need the disk, the information was in a partitioned-off part of the hard drive. It crashed again a month later and I went through the same thing, they tried to sell me the disk then when I told them I knew I could restore it without the disk, they again walked me through that. the final straw was in my 6th month of ownership when I spilled orange juice in the keyboard and fried the motherboard. I entered customer service hell. They, AGAIN, tried to sell me a restore disk even though I told them it was partially booting up. Finally I set the computer up to be sent to their Temple, TX repair center. I had to give my credit card info via IM with a tech support agent. He gave me the instructions for packaging it, but neglected to tell me there was an e-mail with more instructions. I had sent off my computer with the original box and the power cord, both of which they said they wouldn't return DESPITE the fact that the instructions were in an e-mail I got after I mailed it. I finally convinced them to send the unrepaired laptop back to me, I'm going to toss it in the Wabash river and buy an Asus.