ID: B003ES5GWW-R1E5L7JQ7C9OWH-A36S9S8LUITTJ8
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Video-MP3-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A36S9S8LUITTJ8
ReviewerName: Thomas Paluchniak
Date: September 17, 2009
Helpful: 15 of 188
Rating: 1.0
Title: Another Me Too Product
Content:
I work for a big box retailer, and get to play around with lots of various media players. After playing with the new Zune, I do not get why Microsoft even bothers. The new Zune HD is nothing but a me too iPod Touch product. That isn't to say it doesn't have some things going for it. In certain lights, the screen can look a little better, the animated effects are nice, the back of the device seems more scratch resistant the Touch, and I even like the earbuds better then the ones that come with the iPod. My low review is mainly for the following two reasons. 
First, Microsoft bring this Zune to life in much the same way it brought the first Zune to life. It promises to give users more later. In the case of the first Zune, it took Microsoft over a year to offer such updates. When it did, they certainly weren't anything worth waiting for. Microsoft's Zune Blog was filled with Hate mail. My sister included. I had to hear her for six months pissed off by her media player. 
Second, when you buy a Zune, you are left with the same question people used to wonder about when deciding on whether to buy a Mac or PC. Namely, there are something like 60, 000 applications for the Touch, and a zillion third party accessories for it as well. That is an obstacle Microsoft will probably never get over because third party developers aren't likely to be interested in developing for a platform that presents such a huge risk. Apple is not paying developers to develop applications, but is Microsoft is. Moreover, Microsoft doesn't seem to be too motivated for brining applications to the Zune, as it is focusing on an application store for Windows Mobile. The Touch does just about everything from telling where you are, to allowing you to play different instruments sounds on a keyboard via midi.
Don't get me wrong, the Zune sounds good, and does what it advertises pretty well. It just isn't as exciting to use as the iPod Touch.