ID: B003ES5GWW-R12M9IZ59HL0ME-ANQ5401ZLE2F5
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Video-MP3-Player-Black
ReviewerID: ANQ5401ZLE2F5
ReviewerName: BOGY.
Date: October 8, 2009
Helpful: 6 of 7
Rating: 5.0
Title: ZUNE HD vs iPOD Review
Content:
Ha, with a title like that I got your attention didn't I?  This is a review of the 16GB Zune HD.  You will not see a comparison or mention of any Apple product here.  I am a 39 year old male and this review is for the Zune HD and what it is like to OWN one so that others may decide if they want one.  First off, you will notice that this review is "Amazon Verified" - yes, I purchased the Zune from Amazon and waited a couple of weeks to actually USE the product before submitting a review of it unlike some of the others here.  Enjoy....
Packaging:
The Zune comes in a nice small black box that slides open to reveal the contents which are the Zune HD, headphones, USB cable and some paperwork.  It's very stylish and nice.  Not much else to say as the box has been tucked away ever since opening.
The look and feel:
Ever since the first time I saw pictures on the net of the Zune HD I have wanted one.  Being a previous owner of a couple of different MP3 players the Zune was a must have just for the looks alone.  It really has nice lines and the color is just right; black and silver.  I hate this new term "sexy" and cringe when I hear a guy say it about an electronic device.  It does describe the Zune but I won't call it that.  The weight is very nice and it feels good in your hand.  I love the modern look and if they ever turned this device into a phone I would by one in a heartbeat!  I sometimes hold it to my ear and think, "WoW what a cool phone this would be."  The Zune logo on the back and a simple "ZUNE" on the front - very elegant.  On top is a power on button, the left side a volume rocker and the home button on the front.  The bottom is where you plug in your headphones and next to that is where the docking connector/USB cable plugs in.  It's the kind of device that has looks that will never get old and you want to just keep staring at it.  Very pleasing to have something you want everyone to see.  
The screen:
OLED - it's the big talk these days.  I have a few pictures on my device right now and I have to say they look great.  The blacks are true blacks because the device shuts down the pixels where there should be black so you see true blacks and vibrant colors.  Outside I agree with most folks about the glare.  I have the brightness turned all the way up and it looks nice inside but outside the glare on the glass makes it as if you want to look at the reflection then back to what's on the screen.  I don't see this as a problem as I can't imagine any other electronic device no matter what it is not having this same problem.  For me, I can still see what is on the screen and have no problem with it.  It is just the right size at 3.3 inches.
UI interface:
Although inside the box there was no manual you would really have to be pretty stupid if you couldn't figure out how to navigate on this device.  Also, on the Zune web page is everything you need to know about how to work this device - who needs paper these days anyway???  The transitions from screen to screen are so fluid, smooth and animated.  The touch only needs to be light and it works flawlessly.  After using the device for a few minutes you get the idea of how to navigate.  You start off with a list of items to choose from on the main menu; pictures, music, apps, ect, etc.  As you click one you dive into that section and dive even deeper as you work what ever you have chosen clicking/touching away.  At all times the home button on the front will take you back to the main menu.  The accelerator zips from landscape to portrait very fast and smooth.  I really like that and feel the tegra chip inside is working for me without strain when I see this - video especially.  Multi touch works well and tapping is fine too especially on the web browser.  Everything is laid out nicely and there is no confusion about how to find something.  This is a plus for first timers and experienced users alike.
Zune software: (APPS & Marketplace)
This is a free download and helps you manage the Zune contents and updates.  The software mimics some of the icons on the Zune so you quickly identify the UI and what you need to click.  Syncing is a breeze and Zune will let you customize what content you want on the device and what you want Zune to do with it.  I have all of my MP3's in my music folder on my computer and it grabbed all of them when I plugged in for the first time with no problems.  There are some complaits about the software and how it takes forever to download - not true.  There are not a lot of apps right now.  I hope this blossoms as the months go by.  I have downloaded all of them so far as they are free but would gladly pay for any others if they should come about and would be useful.  The weather app is nice and lets you add as many cities as you want and shows you not only current conditions but a five day forecast as well.  The calculator well is a calculator.  The games have been just OK - I feel they do not utilize the Tegra chip but in the future I am sure the games will utilize the chip as it would be a waste if they didn't.  There is a chess game, Texas hold em, space ship shooter, a Bejeweled like game, soduku, and some game where you try to figure out where an item is hidden after mixing up three robots.  All are fun for a short while but I wait for more advanced cool games.  Also the games have ads just before they start - we are talking about 5 seconds of a video clip.  For a free download I think they have every right to put this here.  Also, FOUR to FIVE SECONDS is what we are talking about.  Is it that much time???  Patience!!!!  The marketplace is just something you need to experience.  Music, Videos, Podcasts and more.... EVERYTHING is here for you to choose from.  There is an option for a Zune pass and for $14.99 a month you can go nuts with this and download as much media as yo want - you get to keep 10 songs a month too.  This alone is worth buying the Zune HD.  There is so much content at the market place that I can't really explain.  Imagine walking into a store that has no one in it but you and the inventory consists of basically every kind of music you can think of as well as tons of other types of media just for you alone to walk up and down the isle to choose from.  I just hope for more apps in the future and (I know) this thing just came out so while I wait for apps I will enjoy my Zune....    
Docking station:
I went with the basic Zune HD sync doc ($49) and lucked out with it.  There is an A/V dock you can purchase too($89).  I will tell you the only difference between the two is 1) the price and 2) the A/V doc comes with the HDMI and optical cables.  So if you already have these cables, which most of us do, save $40+ dollars and get the regular sync doc.  I have a review on the doc here on Amazon (where I purchased it) so check that out.  It is nice to just plug it in and sync and charge.  Also I can hook it up to a TV if I wanted or a receiver and utilize the Zune to transfer music and video to my home entertainment center.  The doc compliments the Zune and is very stylish looking and most importantly - Functional. 
Battery life:
The OLED must be doing what it is supposed to do - save power.  I take the train every day to work from Milford, CT to Greenwich, CT and I can go about a week without charging using the Zune about an hour or so a day.  Wonderful! The only thing I have noticed is the back gets warm when in use.  Very strange.  I have been impressed with the battery and hope it stays that way.  
Screen protectors:
I never had one before and at the time I received my Zune there was only Ghost Armor available.  I got one screen protector and had no problem putting it on but being a noob I didn't spray my fingers and my finger print was stuck on the adhesive side.  So I took it off.  Ghost armor was very nice and sent me a replacement but instead of just the screen protector they sent the full body armor - how nice of them!  This time around I was very careful and it went on with no problems BUT....I noticed the screen protector was about an eighth of an inch too short on top.  It was enough to bother me so I took it off.  (I know you are thinking I am nuts)  So I looked and found BodyGarudz on the net.  Not only do they sell TWO screen protectors for the price of ONE but it also fit perfectly.  I used the squeegee and applicator solution from Ghost to put the BodyGaurdz shield on - why?  Because BodyGaurdz's applicator solution wasn't as good as Ghosts and Ghost's squeegee was much better than BodyGaurdz.  So my insane suggestion - go with BodyGaurdz for the screen protector.  One other thing - the Ghost armor seems thicker - I can feel the sharp edges of the plastic now on the Zune because it has full body protection.  I hope they come out with some cool cases so I can rip this stuff off and throw more cash down the drain...!  The BodyGaurdz screen protector is thinner and looks great.  
Internet: (WiFi)
The browser works well on the Zune HD.  I connected to my home network in seconds and at work it's even quicker.  You can tap and multi-touch to zoom in and move the pages around.  The keyboard is OK and can be used in landscape or portrait mode.  You can store pages in favorites and check AOL mail and what not.  It uses Bing to find what you are searching for.  I use it mostly for mail as at work the computers are restricted but WiFi is open.  You can sync via WiFi and download too which is very nice.  
Music (Sound):
There is an internal equalizer with different settings depending on what type of music you are listening too.  It works OK - the music sounds fine to me.  I didn't use the supplied headphones as I have a pair of Sony Ear buds and they work better for my ears.  The music sounds great and the interface is cool - volume can be operated via the rocker on the side or touch screen.  Filtering music, making playlists and and just listening is a pleasure - this is what I got the device for - MUSIC - so everything else is just an added bonus to me.  I haven't bothered with the HD Radio much but it is cool to have. Remember...added bonus....
Conclusion:
I just love this Zune HD.  It really is functional for what I need it to do and the style, look and feel are just so right.  I hope this review helps you in your decision.  I will continue to update this review in the future so check back and best of luck to you and take care!