ID: B0030T17GO-R3Q1JQHVKK6E6J-A1AYQDCVS15KF5
Category: Laptops
Product: Dell-Inspiron-i1764-6075OBK-17-3-Inch-Obsidian
ReviewerID: A1AYQDCVS15KF5
ReviewerName: Arvind Raghavan
Date: January 28, 2010
Helpful: 26 of 26
Rating: 5.0
Title: Great Fast laptop
Content:
UPDATE:::: 3+ Weeks since I got this.... More bulky softwares(even ones that run during start up) / games / videos have gone in, but the performance is absolutely the same. Audio capabilities of this laptop is simply stunning.... I have a HDTV and a Sony Home theater system. When I connect this laptop to the TV and listen to MP3 songs, the audio output is just amazing.... Made me feel like dancing to the rhythm.... I am comparing this with a 2 year old Gateway laptop that I own (does not have a HDMI connectivity, so use VGA Cables instead... So I understand that I'm not comparing apples with apples :-), but still.... ). I don't use this laptop primarily for gaming... But I did try playing Tales of the Monkey Island in complete high settings, and the video and audio were awesome. Connect it to your HDTV and enhance the experience..... 
I went and got this from a BestBuy store near my place.... I actually got to compare it with the core i3 laptops.... I restarted all the systems and then tried opening the programs at the same time and clocked them.... I5 has a way more superior load time as compared to the i3 and Core 2 duo systems. Note that BB has the same softwares installed on all of its laptops (as long as the OS is the same).
I loved the large screen... My requirement was a laptop to be a desktop replacement that would mostly be moved just within my home... So the weight of this product didn't bother me much. If your main requirement is mobility, DO NOT go for this laptop... It can be quite heavy....
After hearing loads of negative reviews about Win 7, I didn't expect too much out of it... However, I am beginning to like it a lot... It has some cool features that I find real user friendly.... Specially the shortcut tray on the top of your screen.... Its so customizable and handy... U don't have to minimize your open windows to access it... just take the pointer to the top portion of the screen and hold for a second or two, and it shows up... No more clumsy icons on the desktop.....
Aero theme on Windows 7 looks pretty stunning too.... Note that this takes a lot of memory though... The configuration on this system has no problems handling it.... I have loaded my system with loads of softwares and still the boot time is amazingly fast... Shutdown is even better....
Battery life is pretty good for a laptop with such huge screen size....
One last thing is this: Function keys are by default set to be used with the "Fn" key only.... For example pressing the F1 key on your keyboard would open up the chose monitor option and not help on a particular software..... In order to do that you will have to press the "Fn" + the F1 key... I felt this to be an annoyance, as I use Alt + F4 to close windows. This wouldn't work as F4 is assigned as a Mute button and the laptop mutes the sound instead....
However, I recently realized that this functionality could be changed by going into the BIOS. Just meddle around the various tabs and you should be able to find that option.... Once you change that to default to Function keys and not Multimedia keys.... everything would be perfect (at least it was for me :) )
Good luck with any laptop that you decide to buy....