ID: B0030K9EDG-R1H3SWQXO69PCB-AJ3RZUTSXVDV0
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-S5981-Capricorn-236-Nozzle
ReviewerID: AJ3RZUTSXVDV0
ReviewerName: Micah J. Robinson
Date: April 12, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: The only vacuum cleaner to buy!
Content:
I purchased this vacuum cleaner in 2008.  I moved into a new home.  
Other vacuum cleaners were messy to empty, and just didn't do the job.  
I can't say enough wonderful things about this vacuum cleaner.  It came with the "Twister" Parquet Floor Brush (for hardwoods, and tile, and a Power head for carpeting.  It is lightweight, and very quiet even turned up to max.  
The Vacuum NEVER EVER EVER loses suction.  It has a variable setting on the handle to control the amount of suction and sound.  For hardwoods and tile, I turn it all the way up.  I use this for my main living area (hardwoods) and in my bathroom with the twister floor brush.  It makes cleanups a breeze.  I have two cats, and keeping a dust free clean house used to be a chore.  
The Powerbrush for carpets is so wonderful, it detaches, and has a headlight.  It cleans the carpet quickly and never misses anything.
I dust my house with this vacuum cleaner as well, it has a hidden compartment with all the attachments you will need.  
A general brush for dusting, window sills, and other things.  
An upholstery brush for couches, and furniture. Speaking of brushes, The floor brush and general brush are maid from natural animal hair, and can be hand washed with some dish soap and let air dry.   
Last but not least it comes with a skinny attachment to get in the nooks and crannies of the couch, pure bliss.  
You can tell this machine was built right.  Germans are well known for automobiles, and well Miele is no exception.  
People often can't justify the $1,100.00 price tag for a vacuum cleaner, and I'm here to tell you, it's money well spent.
You will only need to buy a new vacuum every 15 years if you own a Miele.    
How often can you say you enjoy vacuuming?  My partner and I fight over who can clean!  
Buying a new Vacuum? Buy a Miele PERIOD.  It will give you years of great cleaning, and looks wonderful too. 
Forget Dyson, they are made in China and are GARBAGE.  
Proud owner of Miele Products since 2008.