ID: B0034H2YNM-R2I2T9RVVVRJEP-A1LAZ55XY1AK4N
Category: Laptops
Product: UL80Vt-14-Inch-Light-Laptop-Silver
ReviewerID: A1LAZ55XY1AK4N
ReviewerName: D. Martinez "drzenitram"
Date: March 25, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Best laptop I've EVER used!
Content:
To begin, this laptop is literally the best one I have ever used.
If you're interested in:
1. Using your laptop ALL DAY without plugging it in
2. A beautiful screen and great speakers
3. A solid, very comfortable chiclet keyboard
4. Excellent build quality with a gorgeous aluminum front(I literally get compliments)
5. Ability to play all kinds of videogames with completely acceptable frame rates.
I don't know if it's an issue with QC or if asus is shipping these with a new trackpad and monitor, but mine are excellent.
I play L4D2 on almost all medium settings, native 1366x768 resolution, and I have zero FPS lag. The wireless internet is also impeccable, I never drop signal and I always have excellent ping.
Counter-strike 1.6, CS source, Team Fortress 2 and Dungeons and Dragons Online all play on highest settings with zero lag.
Resident Evil 5 and Crysis play on medium-low(still looks great!) with 1366x768 at playable(not choppy whatsoever) framerates. 
The screen is gorgeous for movies and etc, my laptop has a very wide visibility range. Someone said that you could see a dark gradient around the edges of the screen. I see nothing even similar to this in either video mode. 
The keyboard is solid and very quiet, I've been typing this in class and I doubt my teacher can even hear me typing. Very easy to transition to, full size keyboard.
I never underclock the processor, turbo is always on and I'm @ 1.8ghz, and battery life is still incredible. I spent 5 hours straight taking notes and working on Blackboard assignments earlier today, I've been in this class taking notes and websurfing for 2 hours, using a flashdrive on and off, brightness is high enough that I could see while sitting in front of a window. So, 7hours of use and I'm at 52% battery. I played l4d for an hour and I had only dropped 20% battery. This thing is a monster of battery life.
It's small and light, not netbook light, but it's extremely portable and it's light in my backpack.
The wimps that have trouble pushing the trackpad buttons are obviously super wimps. It's not a challenge. The touchpad is very responsive and the two/three finger uses are integrated excellently. 
However, my ONLY complaint lies in the touchpad. The surface creates excess drag, so I have to turn up my sensitivity in order to move the mouse as fast as I'd like to. It's just a friction thing, no big deal, only takes a little getting used to. I still love the crap out of this thing.
For less than $800, I've never made such a good purchase in my life.