ID: B0030K9EDG-R1K6B1YXFQZM69-A1VUN4JU731CBH
Category: CanisterVacuums
Product: Miele-S5981-Capricorn-236-Nozzle
ReviewerID: A1VUN4JU731CBH
ReviewerName: I. Peters "Miezekatze"
Date: August 23, 2009
Helpful: 15 of 15
Rating: 4.0
Title: Very Good but not perfect
Content:
I bought this vacuum because I had gotten more than tired of having to replace my main vacuum every 2 years or so. Being originally from Germany, I was very familiar with the Miele brand and liked their excellent reputation. 
Here are some points with regards to the Capricorn:
The Good:
1. Excellent suction. 
I am not exaggerating when I say that my carpets look much cleaner than before after having used this vacuum on them. Even my husband noticed and like most men, he is not exactly observant when it comes to this kind of thing. The suction can be adjusted right there at the handle, no need to bend down.
2. Quiet. 
Even with the motorized power brush on this vacuum is fairly quiet. No, you cannot have a phone conversation when this is running and you probably can't follow your favorite TV show while vacuuming but I still felt that it is a lot quieter than the average upright.
3. Convenience.
- It has specialty tools on-board so that there is no need to go back to the storage room to grab the upholstery brush, etc. With the pressing of a button the top lid on the canister opens and there are three tools neatly stored. Not like it is with other vacuums where some of these smaller tools are stored in the handle and have a tendency to fall off frequently. This here actually works. 
- The vacuum turns on and off at the handle. Also the motorized power brush turns off automatically when it is left in the locked upright position thus preventing damage to carpets from the brush rotating in place while it is not moved. 
- The power cable rolls up into the canister by depressing a foot pedal. Finally having to manually roll up cables on uprights is a thing of the past!
4. Overall Quality.
- This is a quality appliance, with the high quality apparent in the materials used and even in such small details as the satisfying sound when the cable rolls up in the canister (I have had other vacuums where that sounded like the plastic housing was going to crack any moment when rolling up the cable). It is actually manufactured in Germany, not somewhere in Asia - the label on the underside of the canister says "Made in Germany".
- Miele states on their website that they have strict quality standards to manufacture each and every appliance to a 20-year minimum product life standard. While obviously I cannot speak to the truth of this (having owned this vacuum only for a few months), I know that any Miele vacuum that is owned by family and friends in Germany has been working for 10+/15+ years, no exceptions that I know of. This makes me confident in that they mean what they say.
- The vacuum bags. I admit it - I am looking forward to changing the vacuum bags on this baby! I have never before seen bags like these. The first time I opened the canister to check whether there was one installed already, I thought this was some permanent bag in which to put the actual paper vacuum bag. Not so. This WAS the actual bag. It is padded, coated, I don't know but it feels like not the tiniest dust particle would ever escape this bag once inside. 
Things that could be improved upon:
1. The weight.
Make no mistake - this is one substantial piece of equipment, especially with the motorized power brush attached. Pulling the canister behind me and at the same time pushing the heavy power brush when vacuuming deep-pile carpets is exhausting and comes close to a work-out. I guess the quality of the equipment does translate into heftier weight, but it would be great if the wheels worked smoother on deep carpet so that the pulling wouldn't be such a chore. I personally find that the canister stalls too often, especially when trying to reverse direction.
2. The included floor brushes.
This particular offer comes with both the motorized power brush and a parquet floor brush. I use the first one on carpet, the latter on hard wood or vinyl. What I would have loved to also see included is a smaller brush suitable for carpeted stairs. The power brush is too wide and too heavy to really use on stairs. It is possible to use it but not ideal. There is another brush available for that but it costs an additional 70 dollars or so. I really believe this should be included in the first place.
Summary:
Would I buy it again? Absolutely. I think this appliance does an excellent job getting my carpets as clean as they can possibly be. I love the convenience of operating it via the handle with no need to bend down. And I am a sucker for the overall quality feel. But if I had a say, I would improve a few things which to me, however, are minor enough to not deduct too many points.