ID: B003ES5GWW-R17BAKMGNF8XG8-A1ERDB5D5LSIK
Category: MP3Players
Product: Zune-Video-MP3-Player-Black
ReviewerID: A1ERDB5D5LSIK
ReviewerName: Peter
Date: March 6, 2010
Helpful: 5 of 25
Rating: 1.0
Title: Keep waiting for it to get better!
Content:
I purchased the Zune HD the day it came out(actually pre-ordered it).  Microsoft was finally going to put out a flagship music player!  I had a few concerns(so much focus on a useless option available for a ridiculous amount of money allowing you to play your device content on your HDTV - I think this is the reason they even named it the Zune HD, the base price for the unit was also way too high), no camera, no bluetooth, but decided to go for it anyway.  
First the GOOD: HD radio and overall sound quality, brilliant OLED screen, long battery life, wifi Internet access(although no option for google apps for ease of Gmail and Maps...).  
The BAD: dozen or so apps(really! six months since the release and we finally have Facebook and a Twitter and nothing else new!!! - absolute disappointment!(concerned now if Microsoft has ditched Zune HD support for the Windows phone), nothing intuitive about navigation through screens(switching from HD radio to audio library, playing one song on an album and trying to see to whole album to pick another song..... unfortunately I could go on and on and on! Everything seems to be hinged on the left side button, but it doesn't do much good leading you to a sort of limbo, and there are no touch screen ways to navigate - the volume and forward reverse options come up and you can't slide, touch or do anything on the screen to get out.  I guess I had to go on a little longer about the BAD.  I keep waiting for Microsoft to come out with a device software update to allow for an acceptable interface, but I continue to be disappointed.  The engineers must not have a player of their own.  If they did they certainly would not say "Wow this interface rules and needs no revisions!".  Okay I have to go here - Maybe they could spend a few hours on an iPod touch and get some ideas.  I know there is a great deal of distaste for evil Apple, but the competition owns the market and is a source of great ideas for what works!  
Conclusion:  If Microsoft makes some serious efforts to completely revamp the interface and put out dozens on decent useful apps I might change the rating to 3 stars.  4 stars if the price was in the sub $200 range.  It should not even be in the same range as the iPod.  Learn the lesson from Sony and their BluRay.  Lose some money and gain market share with a superior product.  I do not recommend this device.