ID: B0035FZJHQ-R1J9PQIB2CYXVR-A33CZXGXFQJPD
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Canon-T2i-Digital-3-0-Inch-18-55mm
ReviewerID: A33CZXGXFQJPD
ReviewerName: Skywise
Date: April 12, 2010
Helpful: 8 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: Upgraded from Rebel Xti/400D
Content:
Having been a devoted user of my Rebel Xti for almost 5 years I had no real reason to upgrade for the photography.  But on family trips I carry around both an HD video camera and the Rebel and I was intrigued that maybe I could get away with just using the HD video capabilities of the T2I as well as make use of my wider angle lenses than is available on either my Sony HDR-HC3 or my Canon HFS100.
Now I'm a big night shooting/no flash kinda guy so my first tests out of the box were of a statue I have across my lowly lit living room with my EFS 17-55IS lens using the no flash mode.  Right off the bat there was a distinct difference.  The T2i takes a much brighter picture than the Xti.  Normally where I'd have a dimly lit statue with some shadow detail and some graininess (at ISO1600), I had a warmly lit statue showing great detail and no grain at ISO3200.  Now part of this may be attributable to the Auto Lighting Optimizer but switching to manual mode and turning it off made little difference at the same ISO.  I think the sensor is just that much better.
I just returned from a trip where I shot about 500 pics plus video and here's my thoughts:
Normal/bright light photography is fantastic and very sharp.  My only qualm here is that autofocus seemed to fight me more than my Xti.  Whereas I would put the center focus dot on the object I wanted focused, the camera would inevitably seem to focus on something closer but nearer the edges of the frame.  (Although it just occurred to me that I never tried changing the focusing settings... I believe it was set to AI Focus).
Low light photography is great.  White balance is still off but better than the Xti.  With my Xti I had adopted the habit of using the no-flash mode to determine the correct Av setting and then would switch to Aperture priority mode to get a RAW picture that I could then light properly in photoshop.  Now that RAW is available in all the automatic modes I could just set no-flash mode and, for the most part, the camera would take the picture I wanted.  Although occasionally the auto mode will adjust the settings to make a dark picture overly bright.  (IE I took a picture of a neon sign on a store front and the camera adjusted the scene so that the store front became "normally" lit even though the neon sign took up 80% of the scene and the neon sign just bloomed over everything.  This looked good on the Camera's LED display but was all wrong once I viewed it on the computer monitor.  Also, brightly lit objects tend to get overblown and lose detail if shooting something darker in general.  But, again, this might be related to the auto-lighting optimizer.
HD Video is fantastic but also comes with caveats.  You can't treat this like a camcorder where you turn the camera on, point, shoot and zoom away.  The camera will allow you to autofocus while videoing but, depending on the lens, there may be some searching of the lens or some "knocking" as the AF finely adjusts before it locks.  While this is occurring the microphone will pick up the lens motion (with a USM lens this isn't that bad but it is noticeable), but worse is that in a low light situation, the picture will be brightened *on the video as its recorded* to assist the autofocus.  Also note there's no image stabilizer so every foot step shows up.  For that reason you have to think a little bit about the shot ahead of time (IE autofocus or manually set the lighting ahead of time before beginning recording).  Zooming is about as smooth as you can turn your wrist (and suddenly the 17-55's infamous zoom dead space becomes a big issue!).  Note also that you're limited to 12 minutes of recording at a time.  Microphone quality is excellent for what it is.
My issues aside, this is a great camera and I don't hesitate to recommend it.  Can I get away without carrying the camcorder around?  Maybe.  The camcorder and the T2i merge/blur functionality but each has distinct strengths and weaknesses (image stabilization/seamless auto focusing vs convenience and better, wider lenses.)  If you're going to be moving around and chasing camera subjects, the camcorder is a better tool, if you've got mostly umoving objects where you can better control the shot from a fixed position, the T2i will come out ahead.