ID: B0030T17H8-R213SFAD2SENNO-AN6XQ7PQNUABO
Category: Laptops
Product: Dell-Studio-s1557-7914CBK-15-6-Inch-Chainlink
ReviewerID: AN6XQ7PQNUABO
ReviewerName: Jay Crause "Jay"
Date: April 25, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 5.0
Title: Incredible!
Content:
If there's one word that describes this laptop, it's amazing! This was my first Dell and there was no reviews yet so I was a little worried if it would be good, but my father had a Dell so he convinced me to get one too. I've had Sonys, a Lenovo, and even a Gateway laptop, but this is by far the best! For the price your getting an awesome laptop.  
I'm really surprised how organized Dell is, I always thought of them as cheap. Online they said it will take everything you can throw at it so I tried, I've had it a week now and nothing has not worked yet. I have played Sims 3 and Call of Duty 4 on it, they run almost perfect a little slow sometimes but really good on medium settings. I also do Vector drawing on the computer with a wacom and I've had no problems with that. I do some minor photo editing, some movie editing, and I program with Adobe Dreamweaver and not a single problem yet. 
The screen is an awesome 720p resolution, and is even fairly clear outside. The keyboard is nice for a laptop, and I think it's much better then those keyboards Sony are using right now. The CD/DVD slip drive is so cool! You just slip a DVD in and it grabs it and pulls it in. And The ports on the side work good too, as i'm writing this review i'm on my new Dell connected to a 50" Bravia TV with my HDMI output, it's so cool! I also like the Dell Dock that's pretty neat. The only real drawback of this laptop is that the battery will run down pretty fast because the Graphics card and CPU are power guzzlers, but they only speed up when you need them. Dell also automatically adjusts the performance and power consumption. Otherwise its a pretty good battery.  
The only other problem I had was control panel seems to crash a lot on Dell computers. It could just be Windows 7, but I only had it when I got this Dell, and my dad has it too so you just have to live with it.
Look this laptop is not the most portable laptop on the market, but for what your getting in it you can't expect that. I mean it's meant to be a desktop replacement. However I was still really surprised how light it is. I would say it is about normal size for the 15" range on laptops, maybe a little on the thick side, but for me it's the ultimate mix of portability and power! 
5 Stars! Go Dell!