ID: B0031ESTF0-R3J650FTG90RRW-A3F87E87D7MQ2P
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-T135-S1330-13-3-Inch-Ultrathin
ReviewerID: A3F87E87D7MQ2P
ReviewerName: P. Altaffer "Virtual Wine Gal"
Date: February 6, 2010
Helpful: 16 of 16
Rating: 4.0
Title: 2nd Toshiba-Smaller and Mightier!
Content:
I just received this laptop a week ago from Amazon. I have a Toshiba Satellite P205 I got in late 2007. It still is going strong BUT it is a beast..17" and heavy. It was fine at first when my time was spent at my home office, but a bear to travel with. 
I happened upon this one at a local office supply store and fell for it right away and after much research found that Amazon had the best build out for the best price! EVen better than Toshiba! 
My thoughts at 1st were to keep my "beast" going as my home computer and just take this baby on the road..but I think that will be too crazy to keep everything sync'd up over sharing the wireless network. 
I was able to quickly set this baby up! I figured out how to do the easy transfer over my wireless network and am almost fully set up on one computer. This computer is very fast and though I was used to a 17" monitor, I have not really felt like I am missing that extra screen. The keyboard is cramped in comparison but I am getting used to it. I do find myself making more typing mistakes. I do find that the bar at the bottom does take a bit more effort to push down but I learned a trick the other day I never learned before. I never realized you could just tap on the mouse pad to go where you wanted to go! I also figured I would be using a mouse anyway. SO I got a logitech lap pad that has a pull out mouse pad that has made this easier to use witha mouse while in my lap! 
I did the recommendations for changing the sound options so I didn't have any initial issues with low sound as described in other reviews of similar models. I am downloading the driver update right now as and added measure 
I do not miss the optical drive at this point. I almost considered the U models because it had the built in optical drive but that would have been a HUGE trade off in battery life! SO far I have gotten up to 6 hours of battery on this. I could have gone longer but I had to replug in when I was in the middle of doing something that would take longer than what was left. I am lucky to get just over 2 hours of life on "the beast". I bought the Samsung optical drive recommended here when I bought the laptop and that worked great to load software into this. Is small and light enought to go with me on longer trips just in case. I hardly used the drive so I know I made theright choice to choose battery life over built in drive. 
I was able to stash this baby in my purse yesterday, go to a client and sit in a marathon meeting for 6 hours without having it plugged in! Huge plus! 
I am still getting used to Windows 7 quirks..but so far I am happy with this one. Always liked the toshibas I have owned or worked on in the past. Expecting to LOVE travelling with this one this year and putting the beast to rest! Great price and great little machine so far!