ID: B00322PYWC-R4PNTZ461GBOJ-A2CZOBFWZIK8HW
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VPC-F113FX-16-41-Inch-Laptop-Black
ReviewerID: A2CZOBFWZIK8HW
ReviewerName: R. Cheung
Date: April 5, 2010
Helpful: 5 of 8
Rating: 5.0
Title: This is My Review, My opinion, Don't judge me >:D
Content:
I bought this Sony F series laptop 1 or 2 months ago, and I'm currently using it right now to write this review. In my opinion, this is a laptop worth getting for the price you pay. I mean, come on guys, Intel i7?! newest processor there lol. Running at 1.6GHz doesn't sound too interesting but they didn't add that it has Turbo Boost which can run up to 2.80GHz. Its a Quad core but as I see it, looks like there is 8 of them but I could be wrong, I'm not a computer geek or anything but I assume the number of Bars in the task manager means something. Anyways, the illuminating keyboard catches my eyes, 500GB is a bit tad too small so I bought a 500GB external Hard Drive for my F series. This comes with a NVIDIA Geforce graphic card with 1GB VRAM dedicated to it. With such a nice CPU, Graphic card, and 6GB of ram; I can run up to 3 games; write an essay, watch a movie, and listen to music ALL at the Same Time! And I have not experience any difficulty with this Laptop. Its a true multitasker. The fan is quiet when you don't run too much apps but It does get a little noisy when running games but you can barely hear it if you listening to any music lol. But I was told, if your lucky, you can get your hands on a fully working laptop, but if you're not so lucky, you might end up like the rest of the guys that reviewed it bad here. So, to summarize:
Pros: Top of the line CPU with Turbo Boost (up to 2.8GHz)
      A wonderful Multitasking machine
      I just can't get enough of the illuminating keyboard LOL!
      6 GB ram, 500 GB hard drive, Geforce graphic card with 1GB
      1920 x 1080 HD resolution
      (oh i forgot about this) It has an Energy star symbol on it :D
      Blu-ray Disc player
Cons: Only 2 USB and they are all on the right side closest to you. Some USB can get in your way when using a mouse x.x
      I got the squeaky spacebar (HATE IT haha) other than that, this wouldn't be in my con section if I didn't get the squeaky key
      Last but not least, Based on your luck, If you end up like all the other people that put a bad review on this >:D
Overall: I LOVE THIS COMPUTER. It destroys my Dell XPS (don't buy Dell >.> went through two country and given two different answers from tech support that lead me to buy this)
So, for all my Multitaskers, hardcore gamers, Illuminating keyboard lovers (hehehe) This is the right laptop for you. HIGHLY recommended. ^^
Thank you for reading this review. This is all customer opinion, not from any manufacturers that would put down a company lol.