ID: B00313JXM4-R1S2SZ0G3FVMWS-A3ESFPEEXMZDMV
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-A505-S6020-TruBrite-16-0-Inch
ReviewerID: A3ESFPEEXMZDMV
ReviewerName: Ricardo Lopes "IT Manager"
Date: March 2, 2010
Helpful: 15 of 42
Rating: 1.0
Title: Worst Keyboard Ever....
Content:
This laptop has many excelent features, but unfortunately Toshiba decided to put all of that power inside a very cheap shell.  If you need to do much typing, then you are going to be extremely frustrated with the keyboard that comes with the laptop.  First of all the keyboard is pushed all the way to the left, because Toshiba decided to include a full size number key pad to the right (who in the world needs a number key pad this days?), so find your self having to seat further to the left in order to be able to type.  This may sound like a minor thing, but you will know what I mean once you have to use this machine.  
However that is not the worst part of the design.  The keys are very smood and flat, bunch up against each other, so you can not tell if your fingers are in the correct position.  In my experience 9 out 10 times you make mistake with the initial placement of your fingers in the keyboard.  I never realize how many times I take my hands away from the keboard when I use my computer, until now.  
Is a shame that a company like Toshiba would spend on making a laptop with great features, at a reasonable price, but could not design it in a way that it could be easy to use.  I have an older Toshiba Satellite laptop, and the key board is very good.  Why in the world would they change it?  The reason why most keyboard have indentetions in the keys, and a way for the user to determine the placement just by feel is because after so many years it has proven to be the most effective way.  Do not change what is working well, unless you are certain that you can improve upon it.
The experience using this keyboard has been so frustrating, that I most definatelly do not recomend this product.  Pay the extra hundred dollars for another brand with the same features, but user friendly.
Good Luck with the purchase....