ID: B003GSLU3E-R377EPC8LA9M3N-A2X9ZR4WA4ZB64
Category: Laptops
Product: Apple-MacBook-MC374LL-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A2X9ZR4WA4ZB64
ReviewerName: El Coti
Date: April 26, 2010
Helpful: 15 of 15
Rating: 5.0
Title: Went Mac and NEVER going back...
Content:
I never write reviews. NEVER. But this is something that just has to be reviewed because everyone should have one of these. It's a little long but I feel that this has to be said. If I can't convince you, go to the store and mess around with one if you'd like. Better yet, read all the reviews. They all can't be wrong.
I've been a windows user for all my life. The experience has been great all the way through XP. With all the negativity surrounding Vista, I decided not to persue it. I've had relatively little problems with windows honestly except dealing with all the problems I deal with on a daily basis (Help Desk Tech). If there's anything that I feel like touching least when I come home, it was my XP machine.
Why did I go Mac? I've seen the hundreds of things that can go wrong with Windows. I've heard all the complaints about Vista. Haven't played much with 7 but just messing around with it @ Best Buy I thought, "Yea maybe it's better than Vista but it's pretty much the SAME OLD WINDOWS when it comes down to it." I'm deploying soon and I had a 17" Dell Inspirion 1705 Windows XP machine (See how long that is? I am happy to say that when someone asks me what I'm rollin with, I reply, "13-inch MacBook Pro" A lot shorter but that's besides the point). Anyways, the screen is HUGE and there was no way I'm taking that tank with me over there. WAY to heavy and WAY to bulky! So I was in the market for a Laptop that was at most 14". When it comes to electronics, I research a ton.
What was the first thing I typed up when I was looking for a new PC?
"What is the best brand of laptops (Windows)?"
Yea that didn't help any. I got "HP is the best!" Then I got "HP is the worse!" So it was a lot of mixed reviews for mostly all of them. So I thought that I'd venture into Mac since I've never owned one. Went to the site and it gave me 2 options: Macbook and Macbook Pro. I opted for the Macbook Pro because 1) I wanted 4GB of RAM (I read it just works better all around) and 2) I wanted an SD slot. There are other reasons why Macbook Pro is nicer but I'll get into that later.
What was my only doubt before buying Mac? What if I need Office? Well there's bootcamp. I'll tell you what, so far I've had no use for Windows yet (waiting to see how Office for Mac 2011 is before I decide). So I did it and let me tell you, I've never had more fun messing with a computer than I've had with my Mac. Ok enough ranting, what do I like? What don't I like?
Pros:
+Great design- A reason to get Macbook Pro over Macbook: the construction. All PCs=Plastic
+OS is so easy- Navigating through my files couldn't be easier. No more "Well that file is in c:\windows\localprofile\temp\settings\...ETC" It's all simple to find (It also helps using Spotlight)
+Dashboard and Expose- Widgets + Easy way to find what you have open = FUN
+iLife- Bottom like, iPhoto and iMovie BLOW AWAY windows standard photoviewer and windows movie maker (garbage, cheap)
+ The touchpad- It's more than just being big, it's amazing. The gestures make the experience so much easier and fun. Want to scroll down? Place to fingers on the pad and swipe down. There are others but hard to explain ;)
+ It's just flat out fun to use- Windows just started getting dull for me. Mac is fresh and exciting. When you buy a car do you want to get a transportation (PC) or do you want to get something that you enjoy driving (MAC)? I enjoy driving Mac everyday.
Cons:
- Adjusting: It's difficult adjusting using windows all my life. But apple has set up many videos online to help you along. Thanks!
- The little things I was used to: again goes back to adjusting to a new OS. Alt+F4 is now Command+W. Gotta get used to it. No biggie. 
Honestly, maybe I'm being biased (sue me) but I can't find a lot of cons yet as I'm still very new to this.
Bottom Line: You want a mac. Start a new adventure in your life. It's not too late. Mac will make your life easier in ways you couldn't imagine.
And hey, you might just have a little fun while you're at it ;)