ID: B0031ESTD2-R2U9PY85VU74GO-AQB4DH57MSZSC
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-T115D-S1120-TruBrite-11-6-Inch
ReviewerID: AQB4DH57MSZSC
ReviewerName: A Regular Joe
Date: February 22, 2010
Helpful: 24 of 26
Rating: 5.0
Title: First time netbook shopping? Buy this one!
Content:
I have been skeptical about purchasing a netbook instead of a traditional laptop for a computer for my wife to use around the home. Man am I glad I plucked down the extra $100.00 over other good netbooks. This thing is a powerhouse! About the only difference between this netbook and 2 year old laptop technology is the missing optical drive, on the other hand unlike many netbooks it comes loaded with Windows 7 premium instead of starter (A major problem in other netbooks). Another dynamite plus in this netbook is the included HDMI port to hook up your computer directly to a HDTV and watch Hulu, amazon on demand, netflix, or other streaming broadcasts. The laptop is as fast as any other middle of the line laptop, which makes it exceptionally fast for a netbook.
The keyboard did take me about 20 minutes to get used to, and while some review sites give the buttons a big thumbs down, they are okay after using them for a while. If I am using this netbook on a desk I am likely to hook up a wireless mouse to it. 
The included battery lasted 5 1/2 hours using it for the Internet and word processing. 
When I ran itunes, MS Word, Firefox, and a few other smaller programs the computer did not have any trouble with lag time. Boot time is a bit slower than I would like, but no complaints given it is a netbook. Like I said, I feel like it performs as well as any new laptop from a few years ago. 
The weight is perfect to carry around the house, which my wife needs during the day with a newborn. It is very thin and very light. 
I did not have any difficulty with scrolling while looking at websites - I have yet to run into one that has to be scrolled horizontally. 
If you are looking for a netbook, but are put off by tiny keyboards, slow response times, slightly too small screens, and can spend a little extra, this is my favorite netbook out of the many I spent time researching and playing with at Best Buy and Walmart.