ID: B00342PJ5M-R15VU5CXOMIM5X-A1M18VHZ0WK8QR
Category: Laptops
Product: Lenovo-ThinkPad-019727U-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A1M18VHZ0WK8QR
ReviewerName: Benjamin D. Heller
Date: February 9, 2010
Helpful: 6 of 6
Rating: 4.0
Title: The Neo works better than expected.
Content:
My experience has been pretty limited, but as I have not read many reviews about the Edge with the Neo 1.5 GHz dual core processor, I thought it was worth discussing.  
My first thoughts are the build quality is good, but not quite up to typical ThinkPad finish.  I have the matte black finish, but it's not the same rubberized black finish that ThinkPad's are known for.  This is just a matte black plastic. I was a little disappointed.  The keyboard is as many have said - fantastic. Very quiet, feels great.  Lenovo did a great job with the design. 
The screen is fine.  The trackpoint is as expected.  If you are new to ThinkPads, I think this is where there is a real productivity enhancer over a typical laptop.  If you type, then use the mouse, then type, then use the mouse... in a typical setup you have to move your hand.  With the trackpoint, you don't move your hand from the typical typing position.  It saves time and energy. The middle trackpoint button serves as the scrolling down mechanism that most mice have. Overall, it's been a great design for the past 7 or 8 years for ThinkPad's, and I think most users once acclimated will appreciate it. Even if you don't, the trackpad is smooth and good. 
I had read casual remarks from PC Magazine saying that the performance of the Neo processor was bad which made me concerned at first... but I haven't really found that to be the case.  Windows 7 installation was relatively fast, installing the typical programs was relatively fast (VLC, Firefox, iTunes) I bought this computer to surf the web and write email.  The performance exceeds my expectations for that.  My home computer is an i7 2.6 quad core, so I'm used to speed, but I haven't been disappointed.  I watched some youtube videos which tend to be flash and processor intensive, no issues there. I have not watched any downloaded videos yet, but the graphics card is superior to the GMA 4500HD, so I would be shocked if there is an issue. The wireless download speeds from some websites were pretty impressive.  I use a Dlink MIR-655 wireless router and I was downloading from Apple's site at over 1MB per second. Not bad. Overall, it seemed crisp.  Not what I was expecting from an "underpowered processor"
The computer doesn't run very hot... but it can be somewhat warm. I haven't tried a laptop that isn't.  My lone complaint so far is that when the computer is working hard, the fan turns on, and it is audible. Not really loud, but audible. Audible even when the TV is on.  Fans should not be audible on a ULV processor.  Write that down Lenovo. 
I was torn between this computer and the Dell Vostro v13.  Ultimately I decided on this device over the Dell because the ThinkPad had the trackpoint, a well reviewed keyboard and a removable battery.  I think I'm happy with my decision, but the Dell is without question a better looking device.  Style over substance?  In this case, I went with the substance. 
Update 2/11/2010: After a day or two more, I can give some more insight.  I attempted to watch Lost in 720p streaming from abc.com last night and had mixed results.  When not running full screen, the processor can keep up.  When running full screen, it can ALMOST keep up... but unfortunately, falls short.  This isn't the biggest of deals, but I think users would want to know this before purchasing the machine.  Watching streaming video in bed is just one of the many joys of owning a laptop. 
Another thing that I didn't note is the sound. The speakers are located under the front of the keyboard.  In your lap, sound is muffled and not good.  This design is more ideal for a table or laptop pad. If you use the edge on your lap, you will experience poor sound.
Also, it definitely runs a little hotter than my wife's 2-3 year old macbook. That is kind of surprising.  The battery life on the Neo is worse than the Intel Core Duo option, and I think that extra juice is turning into heat as the ThinkPad Edge review of the core duo processor has minimal heat issues. 
In closing, I still like the laptop, but there are definitely compromises and issues that keep it from being easy to recommend.  The Dell Vostro V13 at $650 is probably a better decision for most, albeit over $100 more than what I spent once you include delivery.