ID: B00342LI1G-R22V9I5UCDK5TO-A3GKDGJBWXRBOZ
Category: Laptops
Product: Lenovo-ThinkPad-019624U-13-3-Inch-Laptop
ReviewerID: A3GKDGJBWXRBOZ
ReviewerName: rmc
Date: April 16, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent Value
Content:
We have numerous laptops in our household. Our oldest daughter has an Apple laptop through school. I have a Dell Inspiron through work. I also have an ASUS 1000H netbook for myself, an Acer 1410 with SU3500 processor for our younger daughter, and an older 15" Toshiba Satellite for my wife. I purchased the 13.3" Lenovo Edge with SU7300 processor as a replacement for my wife's computer. She had been complaining about the poor battery life and poor WiFi signal of the Toshiba for months, but did not like the small screen of either the 11.6" Acer or the 10.1" ASUS. She had also been complaining of wrist pain. This unit seemed to have the best of all worlds. Light weight, long battery life, very nice screen, an incredible keyboard, and a fairly reasonable price tag. We have not had the laptop very long, but my wife seems to really like it, especially the keyboard, track point, and multiple mouse buttons. Build quality appears to be much better than the Acer, although there does appear to be a slight flex in the lid as you open and close it. I was pleasantly surprised how easy it was to perform the initial set-up. In about 30 minutes, I had configured WiFi, had the computer automatically find drivers for our all-in-one HP printer (a first, usually need CD), and had downloaded and installed Open Office, Panda Cloud Antivirus, free PrevX3.0, McAfee SiteAdvisor, and IOBit Advanced System Care (primarily for Smart DeFrag and SmartRAM). This probably has more to do with Windows 7 Professional than the Lenovo Edge. The only minor negatives that I can think of are: 1) the touch pad seems less responsive than that of my ASUS, although I did not try to update drivers or change settings, and 2) the 32-bit version of Windows 7 limits you to 3 GB RAM, although 3 GB of DDR3 RAM is more than sufficient for my wife's needs. Very happy with purchase thus far. Still debating whether AMD version may be better value IF you do not mind less battery life. I have read some recent reviews of Lenovo laptops complaining about bloat-ware, but personally did not notice anything egregious on the Lenovo Edge. Especially when compared to the HP laptop that I owned prior to my ASUS netbook OR to the Toshiba Satellite that the Edge is replacing.