ID: B0032FOKXS-R3FS38Q5N7OLKR-A2DJ06UXPARS1F
Category: Laptops
Product: UL30Vt-A1-13-3-Inch-Silver-Laptop-Battery
ReviewerID: A2DJ06UXPARS1F
ReviewerName: Carlos Villero "Oogie"
Date: April 14, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: This is one pretty amazing laptop.
Content:
Asus decides to put a CULV processor and switchable integrated and discrete graphics in a 13.3" form factor, and, you know what, they overclock the processor. What an ingenious idea!
Asus claims a 12 hour battery life in this baby (UL30Vt-A1 model), and while that's definitely the benchmark if the computer is in Battery Saving mode doing absolutely nothing, this does have pretty amazing battery life while under heavy use. I played an HD (720p) H.264 video of UP on this machine starting at around 60% battery life. It got through the whole movie with battery life to spare. That is definitely amazing considering most mainstream laptops I've used lasted an hour and 20 minutes to an hour and a half maybe just surfing the web or writing a document. I can video chat with my girlfriend for 3 hours in "Home Office" mode, and it still had 4 hours of life by the end of it according to Windows 7.
Even more amazingly, this laptop has decent performance without sacrificing the battery life. Again, I have to use my experience with that HD video of UP. With the discrete Nvidia GT 210M running, the laptop played the movie with such smoothness, it was unbelievable that the battery life would last the whole movie.
Switching between performance modes is as simple as pressing the "GraphX Boost" button to switch between the integrated or discrete graphics, or let it do the switching automatically, or you can hold the "Fn" key and press the space bar to toggle between the High Performance, Entertainment, Home Office, or Battery Saving modes. Both work fairly well, though there is a slight moment where the screen goes black when switching between the integrated and discrete graphics.
Physically, this thing is pretty light, though it does gain a bit of weight thanks to the battery. Quality wise, the build feels pretty strong, though there is very slight chassis flex in the middle of the keyboard. The keyboard layout is my personal favorite for this size of a laptop. Most keys are where you expect them to be, and the only key that's sacrificed is the right Shift key, but I don't use the right Shift key, so it's perfect for me. They are a bit on the noisy side, however, but it's just a minor thing.
The touch pad is an interesting design, with patterned dimples laid out where the touch pad is located, and the single mouse button. I can't say I'm fond of it, though using multi-touch gestures is a big plus. You can use two finger scrolling, two finger middle click, and three finger right click. It's pretty Macbook-like. The main gripe I have with it is that the touch pad isn't sensitive enough. Sometimes, it won't detect my finger for a split second, and all of a sudden, I misclick on an ad in a web browser. It doesn't happen often, but when it does, it gets annoying. I thought I wouldn't like the uni-button, but I kind of like it. The way it works is that there is a section for left clicking on the extreme left side and a section for right clicking on the extreme right side. It works when I use it, and it doesn't feel weak or anything. It's just that if you click near the center of the button, you'll probably have a bit of trouble, but I got used to it very quickly. I have my own laptop mouse, though, so that's what I use most of the time.
Heat output is pretty good as well. This is my first laptop that I can comfortably have on my lap for an extended period of time. The only time it gets pretty warm is if you do really intensive tasks, such as watching a movie, or playing games. It doesn't get "So hot it'll burn my legs," so that's definitely a big plus.
The screen isn't bad, but it isn't the best either. It gets pretty bright on the brightest setting, and it can get pretty dark at the darkest setting. The viewing angles aren't amazing, as I have to adjust my screen depending on if I slouch a bit or if I'm sitting with perfect posture due to the colors getting inverted a bit. It's not that big of a deal to me, though, since I usually adjust the screen so that I'm visible in my webcam.
The speakers are pretty decent quality. It's easy to tell that the sound coming through them isn't the home theater quality type of speakers, but they aren't the horrible bathroom-like echo sounds that I've heard coming from really low quality speakers. Overall, they serve their purpose well.
Even with all those minor gripes, though, I still love this laptop. It performs well, feels great, and it has amazing battery life to boot. I completely recommend this laptop for anyone looking for a laptop with the perfect balance. It has good performance and amazing battery life for a great price. If you are reading this review, it means you thought about buying this... Do it. You won't regret it.