ID: B00318CG9G-RDA518QLPYSRE-A2SMBIOWSZQKDQ
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DV6-2150US-15-6-Inch-Laptop-Black
ReviewerID: A2SMBIOWSZQKDQ
ReviewerName: Dave Mac
Date: February 8, 2010
Helpful: 21 of 22
Rating: 5.0
Title: Excellent Choice
Content:
Been shopping for a new computer for over a year now as I could no longer put up with my slow-as-molasses 2003 Gateway.  Shoulda' tossed it long ago, except I'm on a budget.  I saw this HP Pavilion DV6 1250us at a huge (nearly 20%!!) discount at one of the chain office supply stores so I jumped on it.  I'm completely knocked-out by how fast this thing is - runs like its hair's on fire!  I timed it at 1 min 20 seconds to completely start-up, connect to wi-fi and be ready to go.  My 20GB+ library of iTunes opens in about 5 seconds flat.
My favorite features are; the jaw-dropping sharp, bright, vivid display, next generation faster memory (4GB DDR3), faster than usual 7200rpm hard drive (320GB), and the excellent integrated graphics card (with 1.6 GB memory!!) for watching smoooth on-line video (hulu etc.).  I find Windows 7 to be not so different from XP.  It has wireless N - glad I thought ahead when I replaced my router a year ago.  Lots of USB ports (3 + 1 combo actually), and a little remote control that stores in the expansion slot, though I'm not sure how useful that will be...  Battery life was good (2-1/2 hrs without economizing, after running it down to 5% & recharging it a few times to break it in).
Did some research and found that this brand new i3 processor (released Jan 10, 2010) operates similar to a quad-core, so it's not too easily bogged down.  Now the Norton Security Suite that I get free from my cable company runs in the background and I don't even know it's there.  My old computer would sputter and fuss for 20 minutes or so just getting an update.  
So far, it runs like a champ with anti-virus going, burning a dvd, multiple tabs in Firefox open, and torrent down & uploads going all at once.  Also easily handles Word documents with lots of artwork, which used to be a problem for me.  Took me awhile to connect to my home wi-fi because I didn't realize you first have to turn on the wireless via a touch-switch above the keyboard.  Set-up wizard and on-screen prompts did not make that clear, but I figured it out before long.  Wasn't crazy about the case design but it's not so bad... looks like rings left by a glass on a wood table.  HP even includes a little polishing cloth to keep it shiny - a nice touch.
Overall, I'm thrilled with it.  Cost half of what I payed for my Gateway in 2003 and I feel like I finally have a REAL computer that I'm confident will be current for at least a few years.  I highly recommend you pick one up if you have the means!