ID: B0033KELCM-R1P9QP3UOIU39Y-ADOWRHG152JHT
Category: Laptops
Product: Compaq-Presario-CQ60-615DX-Notebook-SuperMulti
ReviewerID: ADOWRHG152JHT
ReviewerName: Gary Washer
Date: April 17, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 4.0
Title: My first laptop - so far so good
Content:
This is my first laptop conputer (that I have actually owned). So this is from a novice. The good: Price, seems to be fast, LAN works real good, love the touchpad (after I "fixed" it), fast battery charge, Windows 7. Not so good: low speaker volume, touchpad "tapping" feature was turned on, black keys, Windows 7. Bought this from a local dept store; going for two weeks now, no real issues. Seems to be as fast or faster than my old desktop pc. I thought the touchpad was defective because it kept selecting things without me clicking on them. Almost returned it; did a little research (read the so-called manual). Discovered that the "Tapping" feature was on by default. I had never heard of the tapping feature (first laptop remember;). Turned it off and was very happy that I didn't have to return it. I like the metal-smooth finish of the touchpad, my finger tip slides smoothly on it. Had my old Norton Antivirus account transferred in less than 5 minutes online (someone here said it took 3 hours????). Wireless Lan connected on first boot in a minute or less and has been perfect ever since. The speaker volume is somewhat limited; some movies have insufficient volume unless you use an earphone. I hate black keys on a laptop. They can't be easily seen in dim light, but that is true for most I guess. I'm a control freak and had to learn a lot of patience with Windows 7; which wants to control every aspect of the pc. Every software package over 3 years old needed considerable research to take care of any custom setup or compatibility. Get used to frequently shouting "Give me the damn permissions!!!". The battery lasts about 2 hours with steady use and takes only about 15 mins to recharge. The three little lights on the front could have been different colors so you could tell them apart (all 3 are white). But so far I'm happy.