ID: B00318CG8C-R1TRFRKZ45NRWT-A12538NQ1ZBMNN
Category: Laptops
Product: Pavilion-DM3-1130US-13-3-Inch-Laptop-Silver
ReviewerID: A12538NQ1ZBMNN
ReviewerName: D. Chan
Date: April 2, 2010
Helpful: 1 of 1
Rating: 5.0
Title: Compact
Content:
Design: (5/5) - It's mostly made of brushed aluminum, but there are parts that are plastic. The bezel around the screen, the keys, the bottom of the notebook, and obviously the battery has plastic on it. The island keys are a lot better than the keys on my old laptop. It's also quite thin. 
You can basically "feel" around the keyboard, so I don't really get as many typos as when I used to type on my old laptop. The touchpad is an issue. It's quite jittery, but it's a non-issue for me. Thankfully HP included a button on top of the touchpad that disables it. I like to use a USB mouse, so the touchpad is usually turned off.
Battery life (4.5/5) - It could be better. I get around 4 hours of battery, but I can't really be sure. HP has messed up on this aspect of laptop. For some reason, you can't check how much of the battery is left. It will tell you that it has "27% of the battery left." However, it doesn't list the actual time left on the battery. This is quite an issue since I want to know how much of the battery is left. I've heard that other people had the same problem, and HP will, hopefully, fix it with an update.
Specs (5/5) - Don't expect this to be a powerful computer. Trust me when I say this. This is a replacement for my old Intel centrino 2 duo with 2.0 GHz. That comp was around 1.5 times faster than this. It's not to say that it's not a good deal. This is an ultrathin notebook, and it has 2 cores. You don't see many of those in this price range, and with the aluminum finish. It also has a good graphics card; an 128 MB Radeon discrete graphics card.
That is quite impressive since most netbooks don't have a discrete graphics card. I've even seen $800+ notebooks with Intel I3 that don't even feature a discrete graphics card. Other than the graphics, it also has the usual stuff; a webcam, Wireless n, and card reader. There are 4 gigs of ram, and you can upgrade it up to 8 gigs.
The unusual stuff is that it includes two "highend" features. Well, I would consider them to be high end. It includes a HDMI output port, and bluetooth. You usually have to pay extra for those on the aforementioned $800+ notebooks. There is no DVD drive, but I never use one. It might be a deal breaker for other people.
Overall 4.5/5 - This isn't the right laptop for everyone. The trackpad is horrible, and there is no DVD drive. It's right for me since I never use the disc drive, and I usually use a USB mouse. If you want a stylish ultraportable notebook with some extra power, then get it. You won't be able to quickly encode and edit videos and play the latest games, but you do get a computer that provides you fairly good specs when you compare it to the competition. If you're on the fence with this, then don't hesitate. Take the plung, and enjoy the computer. I know that I'm enjoying it.