ID: B0030INLSC-R20XNAIQV5W3AC-A3T0CQMWAOIPK3
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-L505D-ES5025-TruBrite-15-6-Inch
ReviewerID: A3T0CQMWAOIPK3
ReviewerName: Erica Davenport
Date: March 23, 2010
Helpful: 26 of 27
Rating: 5.0
Title: Amazing Computer!!
Content:
Where do I start, I have been researching laptops for the last 6 months, looking at specs etc. I needed to replace my laptop that has become outdated. I bought a Dell 5 years ago that was just too slow to watch videos, download anything or keep up with all of the new software upgrades. I wanted a laptop with speed, good memory, decent video graphics, large enough hard drive so that I wouldn't be changing it soon. Plus I wanted an expandable computer in terms of memory so that I wouldn't be limited at a really good price.
It is a 15.6 inch, 2.3G processing speed and 4G memory, with 320 Hard drive it is fast, you can view most of the HD videos clearly they finally load for me on You Tube..lol I need one also for work at home, since I use it for a lot of number entries. This is one of the best if not the best keyboards w/10 key numeric pad. I have large fingers and it is comfortable and easy to use it is set up just like an adding machine for accountants, or bookkeepers. There is just enough texture and grip of the keys for fast and easy typing. Another thing I loved about it was the gray interior it shows less visible fingerprints and dust for those who don't like the glossy black of most Toshiba's out there.
It was easy to set up I was so worried about how long it would take. I had already had a wireless network so all I did was boot up created a password and sign on, the connected to my wireless network and I was on the net. Yes to some it might have too much bloatware(unnecessary programs) but for those who are not as computer savvy it includes all the files to get you up and running but you need to update them from time to time. The camera is so easy to use and Skype is already set up.
When I bought it was a much better deal it is bright and easy to use for night viewing, especially if you watch movies or download movies online. I have just had it for a month but as long as you have a good registry cleaner program to clean up Windows 7 it should continue to run fast. One downer is I wish Toshiba would come with the Operating System disks included it is irritating to have to copy them on your own.
Overall you cannot get most of the specs like a large comfortable full size keyboard, with a 15.6 inch TruBrite screen, webcam 1.3 pixel, 320G Hard drive, ATI graphics, labelfish for your CD/DVD, 2.3G AMD processor with 4G memory for this price you cannot compare. Plus it is lightweight easy to move from room to room. So far very happy with my purchase.