ID: B00377T284-R24BLEZVLJPD1W-A2FRKEXDXDN1KI
Category: MP3Players
Product: Sylvania-SMPK4083-Player-Fullcolor-Screen
ReviewerID: A2FRKEXDXDN1KI
ReviewerName: Dennis A. Amith
Date: March 18, 2010
Helpful: 
Rating: 3.0
Title: It works well, not as user-friendly as I wished but for the price...it's a good low-end MP3 player
Content:
I tend to purchase Apple iPod products and thus my familiarity is only with an iPod but my wife has been wanting one and has been looking for a cheap 4GB MP3 player.  And thus we tried the Sylvania 4GB color screen MP3 player (which was like $30 new).
I was using my Mac to load the MP3 player   Your computer should detect a USB drive and all you have to do is move your playlist (or named folder with MP3's, pictures or videos) to the player.
Now, this is where things get a little complicated.  If you are use to an iPod, it's not as easy as click on playlist and finding your song within seconds.  So for those who are driving and want to get to an album, it's not going to be easy.  You will need to click on the root and get to a certain file and it doesn't separate music, pictures or videos, you will need to cycle through it.  Sometimes, finding where things are located can take some time but if you follow the instructions carefully, you'll get the hang of it.
If I had one problem with the file transfers, not sure if it's just my Mac that caused it but you would get the correct MP3 and a secondary temp file included of that MP3 file.  You will need to manually delete those temp files and can be time consuming if you just loaded many albums to your player.  But if you don't, you're MP3 player will not go to the next song after one song is complete.  It will just stop.
I like the GUI colored screen but it may be busy for some people.  I like how it comes with a mic, document viewer and a few games.  
As for pictures, player plays JPG's and for video, the software comes with an .amv converter.
Overall, My wife enjoys the MP3 player and feels that the price was very good for a 4GB player.  As for me, felt it was good for its price but wasn't as user-friendly but for its price, it does its job and comes with a good number of bells and whistles to make a great first time MP3 player.