ID: B00396IC6G-R2CY3NWAWKQ1Z5-A2IHJYPKWLXVQY
Category: Laptops
Product: RECERTIFIED-SONY-VAIO-S111FM-LAPTOP
ReviewerID: A2IHJYPKWLXVQY
ReviewerName: J. Watson
Date: April 20, 2010
Helpful: 0 of 1
Rating: 1.0
Title: Not worth anything
Content:
I bought this laptop from Best Buy on February 6, 2010, shortly after it came out.  I have had nothing but problems with it and with Sony's technical support (technicians).  First, the technicians had no idea the laptop existed.  The day I bought the machine, I called to verify my warranty and three technicians at Sony told me I had only a one year warranty - it does actually have two years, and I think Sony finally knows this. The speakers have a terrible intermittent buzzing noise that is not helped by the driver update offered from Sony.  When questioning the difference between the software Vaio Messenger and Vaio Update, the Sony technician actually told me that Vaio Messenger was a bag, like a messenger bag.  The keyboard started squeaking 4 days after I bought it.  The touchpad is even defective.  Often the right click menu will pop-up without me clicking the right-click button.  Also the mouse jumps from one part of the screen to another.  
As far as the specs go, they look great on paper, but aren't any faster than a Core 2 Duo 2.1 GHz.  The automatic backlight on the keyboard only comes up for a few seconds before it goes out.  Firefox and Office 2003 will often stop responding. 
Sony technical support is terrible and I've often received conflicting information, sometimes from the same technician.  They have no idea that the Automatic Screen Brightness exists.  Every phone call I've made has been at least 30 minutes long and most are over an hour.  On March 24th I was offered on-site technical service.  Today is April 20th and I'm still waiting.  No one at Sony has even said "I'm sorry you're experiencing these problems."  Best Buy has offered to exchange the machine today and I am doing just that.
You would do well to spend your money on a machine that works, isn't as expensive as this one, and with a company that actually cares about their consumer.