ID: B0035LBRJO-R20ULKRXL7S99V-A1VCAJMWM3OTGH
Category: DigitalSLRs
Product: Olympus-E-PL1-Interchangeable-Digital-Black
ReviewerID: A1VCAJMWM3OTGH
ReviewerName: Ink Stain
Date: April 3, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 4
Rating: 4.0
Title: E-pl1 for video, a few weeks of use, my thoughts.
Content:
I have an Olympus 520, and a lot of manual lenses, and adapters, so I bought the E-pL1 for video, and adapters for Nikkor and M42 screw mount Takumar's so I can use them for video lenses. I have old Cannon lenses, but not the adapter yet for them so I cannot talk about that, but you can use most any lens. The adapters are fine, focus is always an issue, but live mode helps on a tripod in bright light, hand held its a guess due to LCD washout. You can use the old school stuff of street shooting to a set distance. Using the manual lens distance scale. The shooting modes and color control for the camera to its 720p HD level of quality is outstanding for video use, as long as you know that DSLR video is going to be on a tripod to avoid the jello effect, and that the in body stabilization available for manual lenses, which works well for stills, is not the same as the electronic stabilization for the video mode, on a tripod you can get great color and a lot of choices. Since I am interested in studio video and animation, shake is not much of an issue. I like the size, kit lens, color, modes, and art mode color. I have the external sound adapter, and its very useful. In manual mode with external sound, pre focus set, good video even at lower light levels is outstanding on a tripod. You can shoot hand dim light with manual glass for stills, video I think you might need a mono pod at least and a steady hold, even the EVF would help, which I may get later. Its not a high end cannon, but then its (...) and is small and has a good external mic setup and a good EVF if you want it. It can be carried with a light tripod, and a couple of manual lenses, to a site to shoot, and the kit lens in manual is quite good when shooting video. 
You want a bag camera that can do near high end stills and is ready for video, if you have a mini pod or light tripod, its SO much easeir to carry. I feel confident I can get it done. 
What does it not have. It cannot use a remote, it has no control mode, cannot be controled by software from a PC, no current remote works. Even the one on Amazon, the Aputure, that says it does. It may work with the Ep2, but not this one. This is irritating. I like a remote for video in studio, but its not a killer. Olypmpus live view is handy in focus assist but really shines on a tripod.  I find manual glass focus fine in low light or shade to focus, on near subjects by hand, but in bright light the LCD washes out. With the Kit lens, for stills, its ok to compose, and its not an issue. I find the E-pL1 on the whole to be easier to focus with manual glass than the 520. Its my top choice in bang for the buck and flexible use, if you can set up a shoot, manual glass is fun, for P and S, the kit is excellent.