ID: B0035R8TMG-R3USYMYRU5Y8PS-A3MR4IAE587YTK
Category: Laptops
Product: Sony-VPC-F115FM-Notebook-i7-720QM-Microsoft
ReviewerID: A3MR4IAE587YTK
ReviewerName: James W. Tsai "Multimedia Designer"
Date: April 17, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 3
Rating: 4.0
Title: A Terrific High-performance Retail Workstation
Content:
Pros: 
Screaming fast processor with reliable Windows 7 64-bit OS. 
Blu-ray combo drive.
1920 x 1080 resolution.
Cons:
Loud fan.
Loud trackpad buttons. 
Placement of USB and other ports.
Overall: 
A fantastic portable workstation that has the best performance for the price (as of 2010-03). 
I am a multimedia designer and needed a portable desktop-replacement workstation. I run the full gamut of graphics and video editing software from Adobe Creative Suite Master Collection to 3D rendering programs. I researched numerous online and retail models and found the Sony Vaio VPCF115FM/B. It has the best specifications to date and costs at least $200 less than similar configurations by other brands. 
On Sony's site, I could've ordered a custom-configured system with similar specs and a personalized engraving option. It was appealing along with the financing plan until I found that it would take three weeks before it would ship and another week before arriving. Other brands that offered online configurations also took at least two weeks to ship with custom specs. Therefore I decided to buy this pre-configured model so I may utilize it immediately for work. 
This is my second laptop of this model. The first one performed swimmingly but had a stuck red pixel. I was surprised that Sony's QA didn't catch that, but my PSP game system also had a stuck pixel. Maybe Sony thinks that's acceptable, but when it comes to a $1350 piece of equipment, I found it appalling. I got a replacement and have been enjoying this laptop ever since. 
With a 16.4-inch screen at 1920x1080, I couldn't find such high resolution on any other laptop that wasn't at least 18 inches or larger! 
It opens graphics and video software very quickly. The i7 quad-core CPU and 6GB of RAM fire like a rocket engine compared to my old laptop. But like a rocket engine, it outputs a lot of heat, which the cooling system does a fantastic job to maintain. This is the first laptop I've used that doesn't feel hot underneath nor scorch my lap when running intensive programs. However, the fan blows louder than any other laptop I've used, too. It does reduce speed and run quietly when I'm only typing documents or surfing online. 
My other nitpicks are the loud trackpad buttons, difficulty in seeing some backlit keys, and the arrangement of the USB and other ports. The regular keyboard keys are quiet despite my habit of hammering keys. But why didn't Sony do the same with the trackpad buttons? Each mouse click sounds click-clackity loud in a quiet meeting room or library. The backlighting is great and can dim and brighten with varying intensity. However, the Function Keys' device features that are inked in dark purple--mute button, volume up/down, brightness, etc.--are still hard to see. Too bad Sony didn't design these button labels to allow light to shine through as MacBooks do. And finally, the placement of ports--USB, Firewire, HDMI, VGA, etc.--are at the front of the left and right sides of the laptop. If you have to frequently connect to a second monitor, use a USB mouse or card reader or external hard drive, all of these cords get in your way. The monitor's hinge design prevents any peripheral connectors from residing in the back of the laptop, which is too bad. 
Overall, this is a great system for work and entertainment. I only list the cons in comparison to other laptops and in case these factors may bother some folks. I have used and traveled with this laptop intensively for over a month, and it still performs exceptionally.