ID: B0030INLSW-R2WXMXSRFCBRHF-A227L1NPOOSEHU
Category: Laptops
Product: Toshiba-Satellite-L505-GS5037-TruBrite-15-6-Inch
ReviewerID: A227L1NPOOSEHU
ReviewerName: Vicky Gallas
Date: April 23, 2010
Helpful: 3 of 4
Rating: 5.0
Title: A Beautiful Laptop!
Content:
I love this laptop, but must confess that I bought it for my son so I have had little time with it. He also loves it, but isn't into reviewing, so here goes:
This is an absolutely beautiful laptop that does anything anyone could expect or want it to. It's fast and there's plenty of room for photo, music, and video storage without upgrading the RAM, though it is an available option in the future. As always, Amazon processed the order and it arrived the date that it was scheduled to. I did two-day shipping with the entire order. I thank Amazon for perfect service.
Once I charged this laptop I removed several programs that we didn't need or want - the QuickBooks, the Norton 30-day trial stuff, the Google Toolbar, and a few other programs. I later installed Open Office and removed the MS Office Home and Student trial version. Windows 7 Home Premium is great! I waited till the Vista phase was over to purchase because I knew I didn't want Vista. The only thing that I didn't appreciate is that MS Word is not included, but as stated I solved that problem with Open Office and it works great. I also installed Mozilla Firefox as the default browser, including a variety of Firefox add-ons, but left IE in it.
Watching DVDs on it is better than watching them on a tv, but of course that depends on the quality of your tv. I tend to dislike track-pads and ordered a Microsoft Wireless Notebook Optical Mouse 3000 - Winter Blue at the same time, but as track-pads go, this one is pretty good and better than any I have ever encountered. Still, it all works perfect with the mouse. I don't know what problems other reviewers had with the wireless connection, but for us it was fast Wifi and perfect from the very beginning. The keyboard is also great, accurate, and easy to use. We haven't tried the webcam yet. There is no need to contact customer service, so I cannot comment on that. We are tech-intelligent so it's not likely that there will ever be a need.
Now for the cons:
Every reviewer that mentioned the tinny sound of the speakers is correct, although my son didn't have any issue with them. I think Toshiba could have done better with the speakers though. 
Yes, you'll never get away from those fingerprints, but aren't almost all laptops like that these days? It is a gorgeous glossy case!
The battery life leaves something to be desired, but then I couldn't find a similarly priced full laptop that promised anything better. My son gets about 3 hours from the battery when watching a DVD, browsing the internet, and using IM all at one time.
I would recommend this laptop to anyone and intend to purchase one for myself in the next couple of months.