ID: B0032ALW5M-R3TCKVIE9SBFUU-A14LG64GIVZIGS
Category: Laptops
Product: Lenovo-15-4-Inch-Laptop-Black-Matte
ReviewerID: A14LG64GIVZIGS
ReviewerName: S. J. Northrip "SamN"
Date: February 15, 2010
Helpful: 16 of 17
Rating: 5.0
Title: Fantastic computer and great value.
Content:
We have noted various other computers while both shopping and helping solve our family's various computer issues, so I knew about what I wanted when it came time to replace our 10 year old IBM T23 Think Pad. Price was also a factor in our selection and frankly I simply wanted a Lenovo having had a long and very good experience with my T23. Lenovo is continuing the tougness of the past generation of IBM laptops.
The Lenovo G530 is really a fantastic laptop. It doesn't have all the bells and whistles that the $1200 laptops have, but it is extremely quick in doing everything I need when I go online. There is tons of storage space with a 165 gig Hard Drive, plus tons of memory-- and I am even starting to like Windows 7. I may eventually go back to Linux Ubuntu distro which is my OS of choice.
The Lenovao G530 has a very bright wide screen moniter. All functions are responding well. Lenovo has continued the IBM PC and Laptop appearance, and I chuckle at the black matte finish and think: "something only a mother could love."  Don't worry about appearances, they still have the toughness that I enjoyed for years with my T23. Imagine going from 30 gig hard drive up to 165 gigs, and the same relative improvements on the processor speeds and memory capacity. This unit literally flies from on web page to another. The visual properties of the 15.4 inch monitor as well as the more than adequate sound card give good performance for enjoying videos as well as extended listening to your favorite audios through Windows Media which is included in the Windows 7 Premium OS.
I plug in my Koss PortaPro Headphones and hear every detail of the music. The sound card gives crisp digital audio performance that you will really enjoy. I'm not an audiophile but enjoy listening to a lot of good music and I appreciate the sound that I get with the Lenovo G530
 We are very satisfied with this purchase which arrived from Amazon in just two days. We used the $40 Amazon Vista rebate so the entire purchase was $400.00 which is a very good value for a laptop with the large screen and obvious quality and speed. A tip that works for me, instead of paying extra to buy Windows Office, we installed Open Office which works great for me both on Windows 7 and our Linux OS which I have on our Dell Desktop PC. 
I recommend this computer and feel you'll get many performance features that you get on computers that cost much more. I have owned Gateway, Dell, HP and IBM and much prefer the current Lenovo G530 to all of them. Our Dell Desktops are recent purchases. The G530 has quickly taken over as my favorite. Great Value, Very Fast, and Built Tough.