ID: B0034G4YRC-R3BJNT2KBSGKO5-A3LOE51QBFF2L8
Category: Laptops
Product: Gateway-NV7923u-17-3-Inch-Laptop-NightSky
ReviewerID: A3LOE51QBFF2L8
ReviewerName: Craig Vlach
Date: May 1, 2010
Helpful: 2 of 2
Rating: 5.0
Title: So far, AWESOME!!!
Content:
Seems awesome.  Entered my order through Amazon.com 4-24-10.  Received the laptop 4-29-10 (that was with the Free Shipping!).  Plugged it in to let the battery charge like the info sent with the laptop said to do before turning it on.  Took 36 minutes to top off the battery.  Then I unplugged it from the wall outlet to see how long the batter would last.  
Played with it for 1 hour just doing the basic setup (time zone...) and looking at the preloaded software.  Then popped the DVD for the movie "2012" into it which played for 1 hour and 54 minutes before the laptop displayed a message saying battery life was down to 15 minutes (brightness of the screen and sound volume were never adjusted from whatever settings they were at when I turned the computer on for the first time).  
I'm no expert, but I would think that practically 2 hours of DVD play would put a more than average drain on the battery (DVD is continuously running with continuous sound from the speakers).  So basically the battery was good for just over 3 hours of what I would consider a higher than average drain.  I don't have an internet connection yet (coming soon) but expect it will last longer just surfing the web.  I'll let you know at a future date.  
Also of note, while the laptop was in use, it never got hot.  I wouldn't even say warm.  I had to do a double take a few times just to see if I could feel any heat at all!  We're talking a couple degrees above room temperature.
When I read the reviews for this laptop on amazon.com like you are now, I got pretty scared by the bad reviews, but took into account that most of the reviews were very good to excellent.  I figured I had ~85% chance of getting a good one and ordered it.  Now I'm very happy I did!
Some people complained the power plugin to the laptop was a relatively loose fit and that the plug pulled out way too easily.  I'm happy to report that the laptop I recieved does not have that issue.  On mine, the plug is held in very firmly.  You definately have to give it a solid push in to seat it, and it isn't coming out with out a solid pull!  Maybe I got lucky with mine, don't know.
It was mentioned in previous reviews that the screen viewing experience is awesome but that you pretty much have to look at it straight on for the best viewing experience.  This is true with mine also.  Though I can't see why it matters as I intend to have the screen positioned directly in front of me while using the laptop anyway.  When wouldn't you?  Guess there's an exception to every rule, or maybe it was just nitpicking.
Obviously the DVD drive did work.
I don't understand a previous complaint about the keypad keys being flat across the top.  They are, but why is that a bad thing?  Besides, the design looks great with the overall "modern" look of the laptop.  Like someone else said, no picture(s) you find online does it any justice.  The real thing puts the pics to shame!
This laptop is very quiet!  Barely audible.  While typing, the keys don't make much sound either.  Very nice.  The loudest sound the thing makes is after pushing the button to open the DVD drive and then you get a soft click as the drive pops open the loading tray.
A few people complained about the LED lighted symbols (yes, they are working "buttons" too, though they don't appear to be and don't actually push in, they just magically know your finger is on them) being to bright and distracting from the screen viewing experience.  On my laptop they weren't at all.  I didn't even notice them except when looking directly at them.  Though, the LED lights below the keypad (one tells you it's powered on and the other if battery life is good or bad) were very bright and did distract somewhat, particularily when sitting further than 2 feet from the screen like when I was watching the DVD movie.  Sitting up close, they weren't near as noticeable, just a little.
This laptop is very fast in general.  When you turn it on, you're ready to do whatever you want in less than 30 seconds.  When you turn it off, it's completely powered down in ~15 seconds or less.  There is no waiting for anything.  You go to open a program and the program opens like right now!
The barrel hinge is very sturdy!  You can lift the screen from any point with no screen flex.  Seems like it could last just about forever.  The power button inside one side of the barrel hinge works very nicely and feels good.  A purposeful push operates it.  It almost doesn't seem like the power button even pushes in.  It does, but only barely, and you only notice a crisp click.  I like it.
Summing up, as many of you already know, this Gateway laptop put together by Acer, gives you:  17.3" HD screen, i5-430M processor, 4GB dual channel DDR3 RAM, 500GB 5400rpm hard drive, 8x DVD-Super Multi Double-Layer Drive (does CDs @ 24x), Windows 7 Home Premium, HD audio, multi card reader, VGA port, HDMI port, 4 USB 2.0 ports, and MORE.  And all for $679.99!  As some others have mentioned, you won't find a set up like this for less than +$1000.00 from any other manufacturer and I too researched for many hours before making this specific laptop buying decision!
I'll post back with an update in the future after having time to really put it through the "ringer".  At this time I would highly recommend it to anyone even remotely interested in a laptop of this caliber!!!  For now, can't say enough good about it.  Maybe it has been improved since others bought theirs in the past, though most seemed to be more than pleased with it anyway.  Knock on wood, but so far I have no reason to test out Amazons excellent return policy.  :)
Good Luck,
Craig